MORRILL, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local Legislation Current through Ord. D379, passed 9-25-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. D-249
An ordinance to revise all the ordinances of the Village of Morrill, Nebraska,
to repeal prior ordinances, to require filing, and to provide an effective
date.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR, CHAIRPERSON AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF Morrill,
Nebraska
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Village of Morrill, Nebraska are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "Code of Ordinances
of Morrill, Nebraska" consisting of the following Titles:
                  TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         Chapter
               10.   General Provisions
               11.   Village Standards
                  TITLE 3: ADMINISTRATION
               30.   Elected Officials; Ordinances
               31.   Appointed Village Officials
               32.   Departments, Boards, and Commissions
               33.   General Provisions
               34.   Elections
               35.   Finance and Revenue
               36.   Personnel Regulations
                  TITLE 5: PUBLIC WORKS
               50.   General Provisions
               51.   Garbage
               52.   Waterworks
               53.   Plumbing and Sewer Code
               54.   Electric Light System
                  TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70.   General Provisions
               71.   Traffic Regulations
               72.   Parking Regulations
               73.   All Terrain Vehicles
                  TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90.   Leisure and Recreation
               91.   Abandoned Vehicles
               92.   Health and Safety; Nuisances
               93.   Public Ways
               94.   Animals
               95.   Fire Regulations
                  TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
               110. Business Licensing
               111. Hawker, Peddlers, Buyers and Solicitors
               112. Soliciting Funds
               113. Alcoholic Beverages
                  TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
               130. Property Offenses
               131. Offenses Against Public Order
               132. Offenses Against Public Justice and Administration
               133. Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
               134. Offenses Against Public Morals
                  TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
               150. Building Regulations
               151. Trailers
               152. Subdivision Regulations
               153. Comprehensive Plan
               154. Zoning Code
                  TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         Table
               I.   Franchises
                  PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
   References to 1979 Code of Ordinances
   References to Ordinances
INDEX
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
      1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of street, alleys, or other
public places.
      2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
      3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
      4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
      5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
      7.   Appropriating money.
      8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
      9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the Village Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 5. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect from
and after its passage, approval and publication according to law.
   Passed and approved January 11th, 2005.
                              Dennis Ostendorf /s/
                              Dennis Ostendorf
                              Chairman, Board of Trustees
 
[SEAL]
Tammy Cooley /s/
Tammy Cooley
Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Morrill, Nebraska,
shall be designated as the Code of Morrill and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, TRUSTEES, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of
the Village of Morrill.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations. (Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Morrill,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Chairperson and Board of Trustees or of the context of the same
ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to such ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places.
   (2)   Annexing or detaching territory.
   (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use.
   (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
   (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments.
   (7)   Appropriating money.
   (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses.
   (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Cross-reference:
   Amendments and revisions, see §
30.37
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS
28-1008)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see Neb.
RS 84-712 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived form the previous code of
ordinances of the village, as subsequently amended, the former code section
number shall be indicated in the history by "(1979 Code, Ch.    , §     )."
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this municipal code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this article," "this section," and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to "sections      to     " (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as "section     " or "sections     to     " which are not filled in prior
to adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or that person's agents or servants, who violates any of
the provisions of this municipal code, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enforce ordinances by imposing fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and
17-505
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
   
11.02   Fiscal and municipal year
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Village Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription: "Village of
Morrill, Corporate Seal." The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of the
official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all other
official papers issued by order of the Board of Trustees and countersigned by
the Village Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see Neb. RS 17-502
   Seal to be engraved or ink, see Neb. RS 64-118
§ 11.02 FISCAL AND MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall commence on the first day of October in
each year, insofar as revenue, fiscal management and liability is concerned.
The municipal year shall begin on the first Tuesday in December on or after
December 5 as far as organization and legislation is concerned.
(1979 Code, Ch. 2, § 2) (Am. Ord. D-167, passed 1-5-1999)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
         
31.   APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
         
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
         
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
34.   ELECTIONS
         
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
36.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
   Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.04   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.05   Standing committees
   
30.06   Vacancy; general powers
   
30.07   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
   
30.08   Membership in Fire Department does not disqualify for office
   
30.09   Appointive officers
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.30   Grant of power
   
30.31   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.32   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.33   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.34   Publication or posting
   
30.35   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.36   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.37   Amendments and revisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in the
Board of Trustees which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter the board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act. The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) and each four years thereafter.
Except as provided in such division, the term of each board member shall be
four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected from the village at
large on a nonpartisan ballot.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Ability to elect trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for
licensing and regulating theatrical and other amusements within the village; to
prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and
regulate markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair, and regulate
wharves and the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to
provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale
in the village; to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village; and in
addition to the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the
peace, good government, and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce, and
manufactories; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise such power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 30.03 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall
take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of Nebraska and faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties
of his or her office. All trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on
the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter,
organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board, and appoint the officers required
by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.04 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause the same to be carried into effect. In the absence of the Chairperson
from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to appoint a
Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and perform the
same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of such standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.06 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
(Neb. RS 32-560)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D), vacancies
in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The Board shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority votes in favor
of such nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the
Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of
another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent
nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the Chairperson shall
continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in
nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon such nominations at such
meeting until the vacancy is filled. All trustees present shall cast a ballot
for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has been appointed to
fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights, including voting, as if
such person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B), call a special
election to fill such vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special village
election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. 32-1308
§ 30.07 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is (1) absent from three regular
meetings of the Board each calendar year, or (2) absent from three special
meetings of the Board each calendar year, unless any such absences are excused
by a majority vote of the remaining members.
   (B)   The Board shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member's absence
from a meeting upon either (1) a written request from the member submitted to
the Village Clerk or (2) a motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from regular or special meetings as set
forth in division (A) above, and none of the absences have been excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members, the Clerk shall include this as an item
on the agenda for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall
set a date for a hearing and direct the Clerk to give the member notice of the
hearing by personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known
address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
(Am. Ord. D-348, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 30.08 MEMBERSHIP IN FIRE DEPARTMENT DOES NOT DISQUALIFY FOR OFFICE.
   Membership in the Morrill Volunteer Fire Department shall not disqualify any
person from holding any of the elected or appointed offices referred to in this
title.
(1979 Code, Ch. 2, § 16)
§ 30.09 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Attorney, Clerk-Treasurer, Police
Chief, department heads and Superintendent. Such appointments shall be made by
the Chairperson with approval of two of the members of the Board.
(1979 Code, Ch. 2, § 4)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.30 GRANT OF POWER.
   The Board of Trustees may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations,
and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Nebraska, as
may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the
municipality and its trade, commerce, and manufactories.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.31 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the Board of Trustees. The issue raised by the
resolution or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority
vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any
resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.32 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be:
      “Be it ordained by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village
of Morrill, Nebraska.”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.33 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on
three different days unless 3/4 of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. A reading of any ordinance in full may be required by 3/4 of the Board
of Trustees before enactment under either procedure set out in this section.
All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or payment of
money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of a majority
of all members elected to the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance,
or any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments
of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a municipality which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the
yeas and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
§ 30.34 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality or, if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory references:
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees, duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
   Emergency ordinance, see Neb. RS 17-613
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.35 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when
and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where
the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.36 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.34 and division (B) of this section, an ordinance for the government of the
municipality which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission
to the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect until 15 days after
the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a 3/4 vote of the Board of Trustees, and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk's minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.37 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance revising all ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Modification to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTIVE VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; removal
   
31.02   Merger of offices
   
31.03   Municipal Clerk
   
31.04   Village Treasurer
   
31.05   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
31.06   Municipal Attorney
   
31.07   Fire Chief
   
31.08   Police Chief
   
31.09   Police officers
   
31.10   Working Foreman
   
31.11   Special Engineer
   
31.12   Departmental heads
   
31.13   Zoning Inspector
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Overseer of Streets and Police Chief, and such other officials as
shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section, the Police Chief or any other Police Officer,
may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal, demotion or suspension with
or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board may uphold, reverse or
modify the action.
      (2)   The following rules and regulations are adopted by the Village
Board dealing with the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay of
any police officer, including the Police Chief. Upon written accusation
received by the Chairperson, any citizen or taxpayer, the Chairperson shall
take action against the Police Chief or police officer accordingly. This action
includes any of the actions mentioned in division (A)(1) above. Upon receipt of
such accusation, the village shall give notice and a copy of the written
accusation to the police officer or Police Chief within three days of its
receipt. The Police Chief or police officer shall have the right to have an
attorney or representative retained by the police officer or Police Chief
present with him or her at all hearings or proceedings regarding the written
accusation. The Police Chief, police officer, and/or his or her attorney or
representative, shall have the right to be heard and present evidence at all
hearings regarding the written accusation. The Police Chief, police officer,
his or her attorney or representation, as well as the individual imposing the
action or their respective attorneys or representatives, may request to record
all hearings regarding the written accusation, at the requesting party's
expense.
      (3)   The village, through its Chairperson, shall take appropriate action
on the written accusation. Following the action, the police officer or Police
Chief shall have five days within which to apply for an appeal hearing to be
conducted by the Board of Trustees. Both the police officer, Police Chief, and/
or the individual imposing the action, and their respective attorneys and
representatives, shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to present
evidence to the Village Board for its consideration. Not later than 30 days
following the adjournment of the meeting at which the hearing was held, the
Village Board shall vote to uphold, reverse or modify the action. The failure
of the Village Board to act within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the
elected board members to vote to reverse or modify the action shall be
construed a vote to uphold the action. The decision of the Village Board shall
be based upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at
the hearing, the action was necessary for the proper management and the
effective operation of the police department in the performance of its duties
under the statutes of the State of Nebraska. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty
of a police officer or Police Chief by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees
pending the hearing authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct,
neglect of duty, or of disobedience of orders.
      (4)   This section does not apply to a police officer or a Police Chief
during his or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of Streets, members
of the Board of Health, and other appointed officials, except regular police
officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the Chairperson of
the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
   (C)   If the Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials specified in
this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the powers and
duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by village
ordinances and state law.
   (D)   If the village has a Municipal Water Commissioner, the Municipal Water
Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from office by a
two-thirds vote of the Board of Trustees.
(Am. Ord. D-286, passed 12-6-2011)
§ 31.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance combine and merge any elective or
appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except Trustee, with any other elective or appointive
office or employment so that one or more of such offices or employments or any
combination of duties of any such offices or employments may be held by the
same officer or employee at the same time, except that Trustees may perform and
upon Board approval receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject
to Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.06. The offices or employments so merged
and combined shall always be construed to be separate and the effect of the
combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties
only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the merged
and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or compensation of
the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and combined. For
purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers shall
not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.03 MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees
and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she shall
keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality and when any
bonds are sold, purchased, paid, or canceled, the record shall show the fact.
He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business
of the municipality transacted through his or her office for the year. That
record shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the year,
and the terms of the sale with each and every item and expense thereof. He or
she shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly
executed and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage
which shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter
enacted by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law and required by the municipal
ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money,
except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with that
duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other
documents of the municipality kept and preserved in his or her office to be
taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be entitled
to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He or
she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a record of all
licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper index. He or she
shall include as part of his or her records all petitions under which the Board
of Trustees shall order public work to be done at the expense of the property
fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions and ordinances
relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour of filing upon
every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such filings made by
him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her records shall be
all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents incorporated by
reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for reference. He
or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the appropriation of the
several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants ordered for the payment
of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable. At the end of
each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts appropriated to
the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official, or other person from
examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (D)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and
resolutions under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her
signature. He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees
all resolutions and communications which are directed at the officers,
employees, or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall
duly attest the Chairperson's signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers
required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Within 30 days after any meeting of the Board of Trustees, the
Municipal Clerk shall prepare and publish the official proceedings of the Board
of Trustees in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and
which was duly designated as such by the Board of Trustees. The publication
shall set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof and shall also include
the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and the name of the
claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be
included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee
job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries corresponding to
such job titles shall be published. Each job title published shall be
descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the position. The
charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided for in Neb. RS
23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (3)   The cost of the publication shall be paid out of the general fund
of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
      (4)   The Municipal Clerk shall then keep in a book with a proper index
copies of all notices required to be published or posted by the Municipal Clerk
by order of the Board of Trustees or under the ordinances of the municipality.
To each of the file copies of the notices shall be attached the printer's
affidavit of publication, if the notices are required to be published, or the
Municipal Clerk's certificate under seal where the same are required to be
posted only.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the municipality, and in the event that the claim is
disallowed in part or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such claimant,
his or her agent, or his or her attorney by letter within five days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies
of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of the
State Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1227, provided that
the Board of Trustees shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of
the Municipal Clerk, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any
other records classified as permanent by the State Records Board.
Statutory references:
   Additional duties, see Neb. RS 17-605
   Penalty for failure to perform duties, see Neb. RS 19-1104
   Publication of official proceedings, see Neb. RS 19-1102 et seq.
   Publication rates, see Neb. RS 23-122 and Neb. RS 33-141 through 33-143
   Examination of public records free of charge; obtaining copies, see Neb. RS
84-712 et seq.
   Records Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1227
§ 31.04 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Village Treasurer shall, at
the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to
the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the
date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall
also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk's office. If the Village Treasurer
fails to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month,
or by a later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the Trustees may use this
failure as cause to remove the Treasurer from office.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   All warrants upon the Village Treasurer shall be paid in the
order of their presentation therefor.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Village Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by Neb. RS 77-2202.
      (3)   The Village Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums
which shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the
source from which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and
columns, show the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and
whether the same was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer
shall deliver one of the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain
the other in his or her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Village Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
   (C)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within
60 days following the close of the municipal fiscal year a statement of the
receipts and expenditures by funds of the village for the preceding fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (D)   The Village Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village
separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and
collect all money owned by or owed to the village as directed by the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money
is, in the name of the village, in a solvent and going financial institution of
a type authorized by state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall
cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the
village, whenever paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face
thereof, "Paid by the Village Treasurer," with the date of payment written or
stamped thereon. He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special
assessments to the several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a
monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes.
Statutory reference:
   Other statutory duties, see Neb. RS 17-607 through 17-609
   Records open to inspection, see Neb. RS 77-2202, 84-712, 84-712.01
§ 31.05 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the Board of
Trustees by §
31.02.
§ 31.06 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality's legal advisor, and as such he
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the Board of Trustees, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board of Trustees and shall advise any municipal official in
all matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved.
He or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as
may be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or
she shall examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the Board of
Trustees will be required to act and attach a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments and documents as to whether or not the document is in legal
and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute
violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the Board of
Trustees. Without direction, he or she shall appear and prosecute all cases for
violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to and are
pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do
so by the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the
Village Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step
will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to insure that it will be a
valid and subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are
concerned. The Board of Trustees shall have the right to compensate the
Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the Board of Trustees
and the Municipal Attorney may agree and to employ any additional legal
assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 31.07 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before the first day in April and
October of each year, cause the Secretary to file with the Village Clerk and
the Clerk of the District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in
good standing in their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions
provided by law. He shall have the power during the time of a fire and for a
period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist or any person
for hindering the Department's efforts, conducting himself or herself in a
noisy and disorderly manner, or any person who refuses to obey any lawful order
by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief or an assistant in
charge of operations at a fire may command the services of any person present
at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal and protection of
property. Failure to obey such an order shall be an offense punishable by a
fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purpose
of examining the same for fire hazards and related dangers.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enforce ordinances by imposing fine, see Neb. RS 17-505
   Disobeying lawful orders of firefighter, see Neb. RS 28-908
   Membership rolls and filings, see Neb. RS 35-102
   Investigations and reports required, see Neb. RS 81-506
   Authority to conduct inspections, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 31.08 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the municipality
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He shall act as
Health Inspector and Building Inspector, except in the event the municipality
appoints another person. He shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of municipal ordinances and shall make all necessary
reports required by the municipal ordinances or the laws of the State of
Nebraska.
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties, see Neb. RS 17-213
§ 31.09 POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Municipal Police, whether regular or special, shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
municipality, by day or by night, and keep the offenders in the municipal jail,
or some other place to prevent their escape until trial can be held before the
proper official of the State of Nebraska, or the municipality. They shall have
full power and authority to call on any person whenever necessary to assist
them in performing public duties and failure, neglect, or refusal to render
such assistance shall be deemed an offense punishable upon conviction by a
fine. Every municipal police officer shall be expected to be conversant and
knowledgeable with the municipal and state laws and no law enforcement official
shall have any interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal
police officers shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may
be required by the municipal ordinances, and the laws of the State of Nebraska.
Any municipal police officer who fails, neglects, or refuses to make an arrest,
or who purposely and willfully fails to make a complaint after an arrest is
made shall be deemed guilty of an offense, and upon conviction shall be fined.
It shall be unlawful for the Board of Trustees to retain any municipal police
officer in that position after he shall have been duly convicted of the willful
violation of any law of the United States of America, the State of Nebraska, or
any ordinance of the municipality, except minor traffic violations. It shall be
the duty of every municipal police officer making a lawful arrest to search all
persons in the presence of some other person, whenever possible, and shall
carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial official upon the trial
everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal effects so
taken from prisoners shall be restored to them upon their release. Suitable
uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the municipal police by the
municipality. Any member who loses or destroys the same shall be required to
pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member leaves the force,
he shall immediately deliver his badge to the Police Chief. The Board of
Trustees may from time to time provide the municipal police with such uniforms,
equipment, and transportation as may be essential in the performance of their
official duties.
(Ord. D-121, passed 12-12-1994; Am. Ord. D-346, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 31.10 WORKING FOREMAN.
   The Working Foreman, subject to the direction of the Village Clerk,
department head and the Board of Trustees, shall supervise the activities of
all departments and village employees, excepting the Clerk, Treasurer, Police
Department, and Village Office; shall have charge over all property and be
responsible for its maintenance and use; shall plan and direct all work and
hours of employment of all employees; shall carry out all instructions from
departmental head and/or Board of Trustees; shall supervise all contract work;
shall refer to the departmental head or the Board of Trustees all matters
coming to his or her attention, concerning welfare of the village and its
citizens which requires actions by the Board; shall carry out personnel policy
adopted by the Board of Trustees; shall be responsible that the duties of
Utility Commissioner and Street Commissioner as established by ordinances are
performed by such Commissioner, with approval of departmental head involved;
and shall hire and discharge part time employees as necessary. Upon direction
of the Board of Trustees, the Working Foreman shall hire and discharge all
other employees, excepting appointive officers.
(1979 Code, Ch. 2, § 13) (Am. Ord. D-353, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 31.11 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Board of Trustees may employ a Special Engineer to make, or assist in
making, any particular estimate, survey, or other work. The Special Engineer
shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys and all other work
done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by the Board,
accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may be necessary in
the judgment of the Board. He or she shall, upon request of the Board, make
estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be done or furnished by
contract with the municipality and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of streets and
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require. All records of the Special Engineer shall be public records
which shall belong to the municipality and shall be turned over to his or her
successor.
§ 31.12 DEPARTMENTAL HEADS.
   (A)   A Trustee shall be appointed to supervise the following departments:
      (1)   Streets, Alleys, Water, Sewer and Garbage;
      (2)   Lights;
      (3)   Police Department, Library, Swimming Pool Maintenance;
      (4)   Village Office, Pool, Daily Operations and Fire Department;
      (5)   Parks and Golf Course Departments.
   (B)   As departmental heads, such Trustees shall have general charge of all
of the activities of such department, including its personnel, physical
equipment and structures.
(Ord. 1979 Code, Ch. 2, § 12) (Am. Ord. D-217, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 31.13 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Chairperson may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Chairperson, the Village Clerk is hereby designated as
Zoning Inspector.
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Tree Board
Utility Departments
   
32.20   Water Department; operation and funding
   
32.21   Sewer Department; operation and funding
Fire Department
   
32.40   Operation and funding
   
32.41   Fire Chief
   
32.42   Membership
   
32.43   Records
   
32.44   Fires
   
32.45   Distant fires
   
32.46   Inspections
   
32.47   Notice of violation
   
32.48   Power of arrest
   
32.49   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
32.60   Duties
   
32.61   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
Cross-reference:
   Meetings, see §§
33.01 through
33.14
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who
shall serve terms of four years. The Board members shall be appointed by
majority vote of the members of the Board of Trustees. Neither the Mayor, nor
any member of the Board of Trustees, shall be a member of the Library Board.
The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the number of
members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members shall be
appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies by
resignation, removal, or otherwise, the Board of Trustees shall fill the
vacancy for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation
for any services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may require the members of the Library Board
to give a bond in a sum set by resolution and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately, after their
appointment, meet and organize by electing from their number a President, a
Secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the Village Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
at a reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such time as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
   (C)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such by-laws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
   (D)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
   (E)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the Village shall approve any
personnel, administrative, or compensation policy orprocedure before
implementation of such policy orprocedure by the Library Board.
   (F)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespass upon or injury
to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to return
any book, or for violation of any by-law, rule or regulation. The Board shall
have, and exercise, such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit and
intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
   (G)   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Ord. D-296, passed 12-11-2012; Am. Ord. D376, passed 7-9-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Authority; regulations, see Neb. RS 51-202, 51-204, 51-205, 51-207, 51-210
and 51-211 
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created in the village a Village Planning Commission which
shall be known by the name of “The Village of Morrill Planning Commission.”
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of nine members appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the approval of 3/4 vote of the Board
of Trustees and shall hold their office as provided by the statutes pertaining
to municipal planning commissions.
   (C)   The Commission shall have such authority, perform such duties and
operate as provided by Neb. RS 19-924 through 19-929, as the same may be
hereafter amended.
   (D)   The Commission shall make its recommendations to the Board of Trustees
so that they are received by the Board of Trustees within 30 days after the
Commission begins consideration of a matter relating to the comprehensive
development plan, capital improvements, building codes, subdivision
development, the annexation of territory, or zoning.
Statutory reference:
   General provisions; Planning Commissions regulated, see Neb. RS 19-924
through 19-929
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the village shall exercise all authority of
the Board of Adjustment as provided by Nebraska statutes in making adjustments
and variances and holding of hearings.
   (B)   Appeals of administrative decisions and applications for variance
shall be submitted in writing together with a filing fee of $15 to the Village
Clerk. Applications shall state the relief sought and the factual basis for
such relief.
   (C)   (1)   Board of Adjustment proceedings may be conducted at any regular
or special meeting of the Board of Trustees or at a separate meeting of the
Board of Adjustment. Notice of hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
provided by the Village Clerk by first class mail to the applicant and the
owner of each contiguous property. In determining contiguity public easements
and rights-of-way shall be disregarded. Notice of all Board of Adjustment
hearings shall additionally be posted or published in the same manner as
meetings of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Hearings shall be held within a reasonable time after the receipt
of an application but in no event sooner than seven days after notice as
provided in this section. For this purpose, mailed notice shall be deemed
complete when placed in the U.S. mail.
   (D)   (1)   At hearings of the Board of Adjustment, applicants and any
interested person may be represented by an attorney. Applicants shall have the
burden of persuasion and both applicants and interested persons shall be
permitted to present relevant evidence to the Board. Hearings will not be
conducted in accordance with rules of the evidence.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall keep regular minutes of its hearings.
Upon the written request of and at the expense of any interested person, not
less than five days before a scheduled hearing, the Village Clerk will obtain
the services of a certified court reporter to transcribe the hearing. The Clerk
shall determine the estimated cost therefore and shall obtain the services of a
reporter only after receiving payment of such sum. In the event the actual
charge for such service is greater or less than the deposited amount, the
requesting person shall be required to pay or shall receive a refund of the
difference.
      (3)   After hearing the evidence, the Board may, upon majority vote,
adjourn to closed session to conduct deliberations but the decision of the
Board shall be by vote in open session. A motion to grant or deny an
application may but need not state the reasons for such approval or denial.
      (4)   No relief shall be granted except upon the affirmative vote of four
members of the Board, and if at the scheduled hearing any Board member is
absent, the applicant shall, upon request, have the right to a postponement
until the matter may be heard by the full Board.
(Ord. D-109, passed 7-12-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, duties, powers, see Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting public health and enforcing the rules and
regulations and requirements of this section and such rules and regulations as
may from time to time be enacted or adopted, the Chairman of the Board of
Trustees, the Law Enforcement Officer and the Village Physician shall
constitute a Board of Health for this village. If the Board of Trustees has not
appointed a Village Physician, the third member shall be a person appointed by
the Board. The Board shall have general supervision over the health of the
village and is hereby authorized to establish quarantine limits within the
village when necessary to prevent the introduction or spread of a contagious
and other infectious disease, to safeguard the health of the people, and to
prevent nuisances and unsanitary conditions.
   (B)   (1)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations which shall have the force and effect of law
to safeguard the health of the people of the village, and to prevent nuisances
and unsanitary conditions. Such regulations shall be adopted only after
published notice and a public hearing. Public notice of such hearing shall be
provided in the same manner as notice of meetings of the Board of Trustees. The
notice of such hearing shall contain a statement that copies of proposed
regulations are available for inspection a the office of the Village Clerk.
      (2)   All regulations adopted by the Board of Health shall be maintained
in written form and shall be available for inspection by the public in the
office of the Village Clerk during regular business hours.
      (3)   When the doing of any act is required or prohibited by any such
regulation, it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with such
requirement. Such person shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
Each 24-hour period during which any violation continues shall be deemed to be
a separate violation.
(Am. Ord. D-309, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 32.05 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is established a Tree Board (the “Tree Board”), which shall be
comprised of not less than three but no greater than five members appointed by
a majority vote of the Village Board of Trustees. All Tree Board members shall
be persons that receive electrical utility service from the village while
serving as a Tree Board member, and no member may be a member of the Board of
Trustees at the time serving on the Tree Board.
   (B)   Except for initial members, whose initial terms may be staggered,
members of the Tree Board shall serve terms of three years, beginning and
ending according to the fiscal year of the village. Members shall be elected on
a staggered basis so that approximately one-third of the Members are elected
annually. If a vacancy occurs, a new member of the Tree Board may be appointed
to serve the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Tree Board shall:
      (1)   Advise the Village Board of Trustees and promote the healthy growth
and management of all vegetation, trees, plants, and shrubs addressed in §§
92.24,
93.003,
93.006, or
93.056 of the Village Code of Ordinances;
      (2)   Hold meetings not less than once per year;
      (3)   Classify tree species, and advise the Village Board of Trustees as
to the recommended size, classification, spacing, and planting of trees within
the areas over which the Tree Board may advise;
      (4)   Advise on the planting and maintenance of all trees, shrubs, and
plants in public rights-of-way under §
93.056 of the Village Code of Ordinances;
      (5)   Make regular, periodic inspections of all trees, plants, and shrubs
in public rights-of-way under §
93.056, and of all public parks or recreational facilities to maintain a
working knowledge of such trees, plants, shrubs;
      (6)   Maintain an advisory management plan for all trees, plants, and
shrubs planted, maintained, and inspected under divisions (C)(5) and (C)(6)
above.
   (D)   No member of the Tree Board may receive compensation for his or her
service on the Tree Board.
(Ord. D-337, passed 8-7-2018; Am. Ord. D-354, passed 5-11-2021)
UTILITY DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.20 WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Water Department through the Board of
Trustees or its authorized agent. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Water
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law on the taxable value of all the taxable property within the
municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Water Fund and
shall remain in the custody of the Village Clerk. The Board of Trustees or its
authorized agent shall have the direct management and control of the Water
Department. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department.
The Board of Trustees shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered
and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Village Clerk for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
Cross-reference:
   Water regulations, see
Chapter 52
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks acquisition and construction authorized, see Neb. RS 17-531
   Authority to adopt regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
   Authority to assess rates, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-543
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-534
§ 32.21 SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Board of Trustees or its authorized agent.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the Board of Trustees may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on
the taxable value of all the taxable property in the municipality. The revenue
from the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall
be used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees or its authorized agent shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department. The Board of Trustees shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Department. The Board of Trustees shall set the
rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of
the rates in the office of the Village Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
Statutory reference:
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
Cross-reference:
   Sewer regulations, see
Chapter 53
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and fire fighters. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose
of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits
prescribed by state law on the taxable value of all taxable property within the
municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Fire Department
Fund. The Fund shall be at all times in the possession of the Village
Treasurer.
Statutory reference:
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-718
   Fire station creation and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
§ 32.41 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and
directive of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement, or maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and
approve of the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the
Board of Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an
annual report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the
proposed additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.42 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees. The Fire Chief
shall appoint no more than 40 members for each fire department company subject
to review and approval of the Board of Trustees. All vacancies shall be filled
in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be described or required of
them by the fire chief or the Board of Trustees. Members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the Code of Morrill or the laws
of the State of Nebraska.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the village for the purpose of providing them with workers compensation and
other benefits. The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of
the fire department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in
an amount set by resolution.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the village's
active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person
serves more that one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first municipality or
district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death
benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall at the option of the
insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at the age of 65.
The coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual who ceases to
be an active volunteer member of the Fire Department of the Village.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer fire fighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the village.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
(Am. Ord. D-295, passed 10-9-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Witness fees prohibited, see Neb. RS 33-139.01
   General regulations, see Neb. RS 35-101 through 35-103
   Life insurance required, see Neb. RS 35-108
§ 32.43 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of such records to the Village Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he shall
include the information of whether such losses were covered by insurance, and
if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 32.44 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the municipality, and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.45 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Village Chairperson or Fire Chief or
pursuant to any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual aid and
protection, such fire equipment of the municipality as may be designated by the
Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in
the performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Board of Trustees or the Chief of the Fire Department or some
person authorized to act for such Chief and in so doing may take such fire
equipment of the municipality as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
§ 32.46 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the Board
of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits,
in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, and utilizing of liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the
odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin
plastics, nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous material that may now or
hereafter exist.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to conduct inspections, Neb. RS 81-512
§ 32.47 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the municipal code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of
the premise where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premise. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, such order may be served personally or by mailing a copy to the
owner's last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premise or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five days after such order by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his agent, appeal the order with the Board of Trustees requesting
a review and it shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to hear the same
within not less than five days nor more than ten days from the time when the
request was filed in writing with the Village Clerk. The Board of Trustees
shall then affirm, modify, or rescind the order as safety and justice may
require and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which
the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The order shall be modified or
rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists and that
conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in complying
literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so made
shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant, or manager making
the appeal.
§ 32.48 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Village Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power,
during the time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the fire fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or
herself in a noisy or disorderly manner. The officials shall be severally
vested with the usual powers and authority of municipal police officers to
command all persons to assist them in the performance of their duties.
§ 32.49 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
$50. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether such fire was the
result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation shall be begun
within two days of the occurrence of such fire and the State Fire Marshal shall
have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she
deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires
occurring within the municipality shall immediately notify the State Fire
Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire furnish him or
her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and origin
of the fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
Statutory reference:
   Investigation and report required, see Neb. RS 81-506
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.60 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Board of Trustees. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the
Board of Trustees, have control and management of all matters relating to the
Police Department, its officers and members, and shall have the custody and
control of all property and books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall
devote his or her whole time to the municipal affairs and interests of the
municipality and to the preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness
thereof. The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Board of Trustees. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the
rights of persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the municipality. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police
officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the municipality
and shall see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn
complaints against any person or persons for violation of the same.
§ 32.61 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the municipality or otherwise perform the
functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
Primary jurisdiction means the geographic area within territorial limits of the
municipality.
   (B)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce
the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated
village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer has such enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A law
enforcement officer in need of assistance shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime;
and
      (4)   If the municipality, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any
other municipality or county for law enforcement services or joint law
enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have such enforcement
authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating political
subdivisions if provided for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the
agreement, the municipality shall provide liability insurance coverage for its
own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, or aircraft while
under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug or otherwise in
violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-
4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or 60-6,211.02, a municipal
law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do any of the following
or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport such person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer's primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer's primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to such person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer's primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (D)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the municipality in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for such disaster, emergency, or civil defense
emergency when such program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The municipality
shall self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Public
   
33.03   When; where; quorum
   
33.04   Special meetings
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   (Reserved)
   
33.07   Teleconferencing
   
33.08   Closed sessions
   
33.09   Minutes
   
33.10   Votes
   
33.11   Notice to news media
   
33.12   Public participation
   
33.13   Order of business
   
33.14   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.30   Bonds; requirements
   
33.31   Oath of office; municipal officials
Compensation
   
33.45   Compensation; how fixed; increase or diminishment
   
33.46   Conflict of interest involving contracts
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(2))
   PUBLIC BODY.
   (1)   (a)   The governing body of the municipality;
      (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by constitution,
statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
      (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless
a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(1))
§ 33.02 PUBLIC.
   (A)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the Board of Trustees usually
holds such meetings unless the publicized notice required by this section
designates some other public building or other specified place.
   (B)   The advance publicized notice of all public convened meetings shall be
simultaneously transmitted to all members of the Board of Trustees and to the
public by a method designated by the Board of Trustees or by the Chairperson if
the Board of Trustees has not designated a method. The notice shall contain the
time and specific place for each meeting and either an enumeration of the
agenda subjects known at the time of the notice or a statement that such an
agenda that is kept continually current shall be readily available for public
inspection at the office of the Village Clerk during normal business hours.
Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later
than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours
before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the Board of Trustees
scheduled outside the corporate limits of the municipality. The Board of
Trustees shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an
emergency nature only at such public meetings.
   (C)   The minutes of the Village Clerk shall include the record of the
manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a
statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was
communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings, the names of each
member of the Board of Trustees present or absent at each convened meeting, and
the substance of all matters discussed. The minutes of the Board of Trustees
shall be a public record open to inspection by the public upon request at any
reasonable time at the office of the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be taken only by roll call vote of the Board of Trustees in open session.
The record of the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall show how each member voted or
that the member was absent and did not vote.
Statutory reference:
   Meetings required to be public, see Neb. RS 84-1408
   Definitions, see Neb. RS 84-1409
   Notice, agenda, and the like, see Neb. RS 84-1411
   Minutes, roll call, secret ballot, see Neb. RS 84-1413
§ 33.03 WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall hold one regular meeting per month. This
meeting shall be held at a place designated by the Board of Trustees prior to
the meeting on the first Tuesday of each month, except if the first Tuesday is
a legal holiday or if the first Tuesday is before the fifth day of the month,
then such regular meeting shall be held on the second Tuesday of the month.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Trustees may, by a majority vote of
the Trustees present at the regular monthly meeting immediately before, move
the date of a regular monthly meeting if necessary to accommodate matters of
scheduling and agenda items, provided that the monthly meeting during any month
is no later than the fifteenth day of that month. All regular meetings shall be
held at 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   (1)   At all meeting of the Board of Trustees, a majority of the
Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may adjourn
from day to day and may compel the attendance of the absent members.
      (2)   On the request of any two members, whether a quorum is present or
not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (C)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of the members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
(Ord. D-162, passed 10-5-1998; Am. Ord. D-252, passed 9-6-2005; Am. Ord. D-254,
passed 1-10-2006; Am. Ord. D-313, passed 6-7-2016; Am. Ord. D-379, passed 9-25-
2024)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of time and place for meetings, see Neb. RS 17-204 and 17-205
§ 33.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or by three members
of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board
of Trustees in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the Village Clerk shall
notify the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time and its
purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Power of Chairperson to convene meetings, see Neb. RS 17-204
   Notice requirements for public meetings, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.11 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(4))
§ 33.06 (RESERVED).
§ 33.07 TELECONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of an entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, of the governing
body of a public power district having a chartered territory of more than 50
counties in this state, or of the governing body of a risk management pool or
its advisory committees organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk
Management Act may be held by telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity's or pool's
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public's right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity's or pool's meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall
not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in
the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(3))
§ 33.08 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest, or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason
   necessitating the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close.
Closed sessions may be held for but shall not be limited to such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action shall mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise
to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under subdivision (A)(1)(a) of
this section.
   (C)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself
a subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the
provisions of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance
meeting, social gathering, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter and the Act shall not apply to
chance meetings or to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of
members of a public body at which there is no meeting of the body then
intentionally convened and there is no vote or other action taken regarding any
matter over which the public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or
advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.09 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the village may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(1), (4), and (5))
Statutory reference:
   Rights of the public, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 33.10 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(2))
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(3))
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on voting, see Neb. RS 17-616
§ 33.11 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the Secretary,
or other designee of each public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(4))
§ 33.12 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to § 33.08, may be videotaped, televised, photographed,
broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder,
camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction
or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this
subchapter, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small to
accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting. Public bodies shall make available
at least one current copy of the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room
at a location accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the
meeting, the public shall be informed about the location of the posted
information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 33.13 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be open to the public.
Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Village Clerk, the Chairperson, and such other
municipal officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in
the meeting place, and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for
consideration and disposition in the manner prescribed below, or by the
official agenda on file at the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The business of the municipality shall be taken up for consideration
and disposition in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Recognition that the meeting was preceded by public notice and
determined to be legal and in open session;
      (4)   Approval of prior meeting’s minutes;
      (5)   Approval of prior month’s claims;
      (6)   Old business;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Announcement of next meeting date and time; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
§ 33.14 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming trustees, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the Board the names of all
trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board shall
examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of the
village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk's report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village ordinance. The
Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.30 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed in the
Village Clerk's office within the following time:
      (1)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their appointment;
and
      (2)   Of elected village officers, within 30 days after the canvass of
the votes of the election at which they were chosen.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least 2 sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by 2 or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within 10 days
of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before the
date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be
in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond within
the required time and sufficient cause is not shown within that time, his or
her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such vacancy shall
thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the law may
direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within 10 days from the time at which his
or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than 2
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses, or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal, or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds generally and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118
   Authority to require bond, see Neb. RS 17-604
§ 33.31 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed,
except when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before
entering upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath,
which shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I,                                              , do solemnly swear that
I will support the constitution of the United States and the constitution of
the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely
and without mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of,
                          , according to law and to the best of my ability. And
I do further swear that I do not advocate nor am I a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION
§ 33.45 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; INCREASE OR DIMINISHMENT.
   (A) The elected and appointed officials and other employees of the village
shall receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B) No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (C)   The emoluments of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices, except that when there
are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or a board or commission having
more than one member and the terms of one or more members commence and end at
different times, the compensation of all members may be increased or diminished
at the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall
have resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the
time for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments
thereof were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation for merged offices, Neb. RS 17-209.02
§ 33.46 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   BUSINESS ASSOCIATION means a business:
         (a)   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability company
member, director, or officer; or
         (b)   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         An individual who occupies a confidential professional relationship
protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This definition shall
not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if the filer reports
the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      (2)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY means a child residing in an individual's
household, a spouse of an individual, or an individual claimed by that
individual or that individual's spouse as a dependent for federal income tax
purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      (3)   OFFICER means:
         (a)   A member of any board or commission of the municipality which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
such board or commission; or
         (b)   Any elected municipal official.
         Officer does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance drivers with
respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the county attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who (1) has no business association with the business
involved in the contract or (2) will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or
commission as a result of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest
within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (F)   If an officer's parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer's governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to (1) all employees or (2) all employees within
a classification and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in subdivisions (a) through (e) of this division (H)(1)
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) this section. Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five years
from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after such account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest. (Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such body may
have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Private gain by public officers, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
   Utility officers permitted to serve in elected office, see Neb. RS 70-624.04
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Election of officers; certifications required
§ 34.01 ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act. Any other election held by the municipality shall be held
as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code,
or bylaws of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Public funds defined
   
35.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.03   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.04   Claims; warrants
   
35.05   Expenditures
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment of funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.30   Fiscal year
   
35.31   Budget procedures
   
35.32   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.33   Proposed budget statement; contents; filing
   
35.34   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of amount
to be received from taxation
   
35.35   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
35.36   Appropriation bill
   
35.37   Revision of budget
   
35.38   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.60   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
35.61   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.62   Property tax; certification of amount
   
35.63   Property tax request; procedure
   
35.64   Motor vehicle tax
   
35.65   Sales and use tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the Nebraska County and Village Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the village from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
governing body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-quarter vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the governing body may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162; or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, if the village has
established, by an interlocal agreement with any county, a joint purchasing
division or agency, the village may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
      PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756) (Ord. D-272, passed 11-11-2008; Am. Ord. D-287, passed 12-6-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.03 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this division (A):
         (a)   Accountant shall mean a duly licensed public accountant or
certified public accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in
any way with the village;
         (b)   Annual audit report shall mean the written report of the
accountant and all appended statements and schedules relating thereto
presenting or recording the findings of an examination or audit of the
financial transactions, affairs, or financial condition of the village and its
proprietary functions for the fiscal year immediately prior to the making of
such annual report; and
         (c)   Fiscal year shall mean the fiscal year for the village or the
fiscal year established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if
different than the municipal fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village's
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for such preceding fiscal
year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. Such audit shall be completed and the annual audit
report made by such accountant shall be submitted within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS
84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise
which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have
that phase of the village's affairs reported separately from the other
functions of the village. The result of such audit shall appear separately in
the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit
shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, such report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village's actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
§ 35.04 CLAIMS; WARRANTS.
   (A)   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the Board of
Trustees in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand
shall be audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section.
No costs shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought
against it for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Board
of Trustees to be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery
shall be for a greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No
order or warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the
purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the
municipal treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn,
provided that in the event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or
state government for the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may
be drawn in excess of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the
purpose for which warrant is drawn.
   (B)   All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasury must be signed by the
Board Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the
particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom payable,
and for what particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon
warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the
adopted budget statement for the fund upon which it is drawn and the amount
already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions on claims, see Neb. RS 17-714 and 17-715
   Other provisions on warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2201 through 77-2215
§ 35.05 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or
draw any order or warrant on the municipal treasury for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No expenditure for any improvement to be paid for out of the general
fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one year the amount provided for
that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may from time to time by majority vote authorize
the expenditure of village funds to recognize the outstanding contribution or
service to the community by any elected or appointed official, employee, or
volunteer, including those serving on local boards or commissions. Such
expenditures may be for plaques, certificates of achievement, and/or items of
value. The expenditure on any single occasion shall not exceed $1,200 per
person and shall not, with respect to any individual, exceed a cumulative total
of $1,500.
(Ord. D-223, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and perform all other necessary functions related
thereto including foreclosure.
   (B)   If the municipality elects to collect its special assessments, notice
that special assessments are due shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to the
last known address of the person against whom such special assessments are
assessed or to the lending institution or other party responsible for paying
such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice shall not relieve the
taxpayer from any liability to pay such special assessments and any interest or
penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A municipality that elects to collect its special assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for
any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, subject to the limitations set forth herein,
shall have the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law
upon the taxable value of all taxable property within the municipality for a
term not to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance, of the approved uses as authorized by state
law.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (B)   To initiate the sinking fund, the Board of Trustees shall declare its
purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the municipality
the proposition to provide the improvement at the next general municipal
election. The resolution shall set forth a clear description of the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, over a definite
period of years (not exceeding ten years) required to pay such cost, and the
specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established to
carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the proposition
for placement upon the ballot at such election. Notice of the proposition shall
be published in its entirety three times on successive weeks before the day of
the election in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
The sinking fund may be established after the election if a majority or more of
the legal votes were in favor of the establishment of the fund. The Board of
Trustees may then proceed to establish the fund in conformity with the
provisions of the proposition and applicable state law. The funds received by
the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested with
the written approval of the Board of Trustees in the manner provided by state
law. No sinking fund so established shall be used for any purpose or purposes
contrary to the purpose as it appeared on the ballot unless the Board of
Trustees is authorized to do so by 60% of the qualified electors of the
municipality voting at a general election favoring such a change in the use of
the sinking fund.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304
   Investment of funds, see Neb. RS 77-2337 and 77-2341
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received, or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the Board of
Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution,
or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a member of the
Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall not disqualify
such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial
institution from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions (1) a bond
in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, (2) security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
Board of Trustees shall approve such bond or giving of security. The Village
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by such corporation,
and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or other
security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (D)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Deposits of public funds regulated, see Neb. RS 77-2362 through 77-2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386 through 77-2397
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the State of Nebraska to the extent that such
certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the
amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the same manner as is
provided for cities of the first class in Neb. RS 16-714 to 16-716. Neb. RS 77-
2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial institutions. Neb. RS
77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in certificates of
deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the state investment
officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date the
investment is made.
(Neb. RS 77-2341(1))
Statutory reference:
   Investment in bonds, see Neb. RS 17-608 and 17-609
   Investment of funds, see Neb. RS 77-2337 and 77-2341
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Boundary bridge bonds, see Neb. RS 39-835 through 39-842.01
   Cemetery bonds, see Neb. RS 12-1001 through 12-1004 and RS 17-939
   Cold storage plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-958
   Compromise of indebtedness, see Neb. RS 10-301 through 10-305
   Dikes, see Neb. RS 17-529.01
   Flood control project bonds, see Neb. RS 17-529.08
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-614
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
   Internal improvement bonds, see Neb. RS 10-401 through 10-411
   Joint power plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-911
   Library bonds, see Neb. RS 17-968
   Medical and multiunit facility bonds, see Neb. RS 23-3513
   Power plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-908
   Tax anticipation bonds, see Neb. RS 18-1203
   Uniform registration and cancellation of bonds, see Neb. RS 10-201 through
10-209
   Utilities bonds, see Neb. RS 17-905
   Waterworks bonds, see Neb. RS 17-534
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The municipality may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without this state, for
the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the municipality.
(B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned to
a collection agency unless:
   (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
      (a)   Of the existence of the debt;
      (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for collection
if the debt is not paid; and
   (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
(C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
(D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees or
payments except delinquent property taxes or real estate. In the case of debt
arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or traffic
matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee shall be
$25 or 4-1/2% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee shall be
paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency providing
the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may authorize municipal officials to accept
credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
municipal official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge
cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or
electronic funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price
for services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.   
   (E)   The Board of Trustees may choose to participate in the state contract
for such payment services. If the Board of Trustees chooses not to participate
in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards, and
debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the Board of Trustees shall be authorized but not required to impose a
surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or
charge card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality, but the surcharge or
convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by
the credit card or charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which
have contracted with the state or under division (E) of this section. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the municipality by credit card or
charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of
such surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by such person and
shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit
card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system
for providing or retrieving information electronically, the municipal official
shall be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or
convenience fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, electronic funds transfer means the
movement of funds by nonpaper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve's Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.30 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.31 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.32 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees
in September, the Board of Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for
the current expenses of the municipality. Except as provided in division (B) of
this section, such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the
total amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the
prior budget year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the municipality to meet
its statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Board of Trustees in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this
section shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or
purpose as provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section
shall be construed to authorize expenditures by the municipality in excess of
that authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.33 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually prepare a proposed budget
statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public prior to
publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget statement. A
proposed budget statement shall contain the following information, except as
provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted exclusive of
capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property (a) for the
purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds issued by the Board of
Trustees and (b) for all other purposes;
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the municipality as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the municipality and shall be accurately stated on the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The municipality shall correct any material errors in the budget
statement detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised
from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the
estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the
unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.34 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT
TO BE RECEIVED FROM TAXATION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year conduct a public hearing on its
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately (1) the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Board of Trustees and (2) the amount to be received for
all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.35 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each
year and file with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget
statement which complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount
of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined under §
35.33 .
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.36 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the
Nebraska Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.37 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on such proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, such that the
revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be insufficient,
additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a need to reduce
the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522; or
      (3)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. Such published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At such hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
of Trustees shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which
the Board of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a
copy of the revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget.
Such warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by
the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board of Trustees Body shall, correct an
adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error
which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the
amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for
such a correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of
the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which
the Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures
authorized by the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.38 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION shall mean a water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION shall mean that the costs of operation of a proprietary
function are regularly financed by appropriations from the municipality's
general fund in excess of the amount paid by the municipality to the
proprietary function for actual service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s general fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediate preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   Such statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on such
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published at least five days prior
to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the Board’s
jurisdiction or by mailing each resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After such hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of such hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident
within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of such fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for such fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Board‘s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident
within the Board’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for such fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the village shall be shown as a source of revenue in the municipal budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.60 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   (1)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a
single amount for general fund purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall allocate the amount raised by the all-
purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality in its annual
budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the Board of
Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
§ 35.61 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The village may levy
a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to
the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which
require or obligate the village to pay such judgment, to the extent such
judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division
(A). The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include
all other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C).
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
municipal levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision's governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude such political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            (i)   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present
which determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political
subdivisions; and
            (ii)   Forward a copy of such resolution to the chairperson of the
Board of Trustees of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the Board of Trustees and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the village; or
      (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)    The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but such tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to such tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose such tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) for a period
of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after notice
is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at least 20
days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters residing in
the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action to exceed
the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of the registered
voters residing in the village who are present at the meeting. The method of
voting at the meeting shall protect the secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of
the registered voters present at the meeting vote in favor of exceeding the
limits, a copy of the record of that action shall be forwarded to the County
Board prior to October 10 and the County Board shall authorize a levy as
approved by the residents for the year. If a majority of the registered voters
present at the meeting vote against exceeding the limits, the limit shall not
be exceeded and the village shall have no power to call for an election under
this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            (i)   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the Board of Trustees
and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
            (ii)   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444
§ 35.62 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.63 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the Board of Trustees passes by a
majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different
amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the village at least five
days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year's
tax request if applied to the current year's valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (B)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before October 13 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply.
   (C)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1601.02)
§ 35.64 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The Board of Trustees may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or used in
the village. Until the implementation date designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax shall be paid to the county treasurer of
the county in which the village is located when the registration fees as
provided in the Motor Vehicle Registration Act are paid. Such taxes shall be
credited by the county treasurer to the road fund of the village. On and after
the implementation date designated under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax shall be paid
to the County Treasurer for credit to such road fund. Such funds shall be used
by the village for constructing, resurfacing, maintaining, or improving
streets, roads alleys, public ways, or parts thereof or for the amortization of
bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301 et seq.
§ 35.65 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Modified sales and use tax imposed. The Village Board hereby imposes a
sales and use tax of 1.0% upon the same transactions within the village on
which the state is authorized to impose a tax by amending use of the proceeds
from the current sales and use tax, subject to the terms and conditions set
forth in division (B).
   (B)   Terms and conditions.
      (1)   Specific use. The entire portion of the proceeds of the sales and
use tax, equal to 1.0%, shall be allocated to a village sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, water systems, and real property maintenance and construction fund, for
use by the village to maintain or construct village-owned sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, water systems and real property, or to pay for loans (including
principal, interest and fees) incurred by the village for such construction or
maintenance. The net proceeds of the modified sales and use tax shall be
appropriated and expended consistently with this division. The modified sales
and use tax imposed by this section shall be administered as provided in the
Nebraska Local Option Revenue Act, Neb RS 77-27,142 et seq.
      (2)   Termination of specific use. Use of the proceeds of the sales and
use tax for the village sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water systems, and real
property maintenance and construction fund shall automatically terminate on
March 31, 2027, and shall revert to use for acquiring, repairing or replacing
village sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water system improvements on April 1,
2027, unless use of the proceeds for the village sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
water systems and real property maintenance and construction fund is extended
by a vote of the qualified electors prior to that date.
      (3)   Use of current tax proceeds.  The currently unallocated but
collected proceeds of the sales and use tax, as that amount exists on March 31,
2017, shall remain separate from the village general fund and shall continue to
be used only for acquiring, repairing or replacing village sanitary sewer,
storm sewer and water system improvements.
      (4)   Continuity of tax. If the amendment to the sales and use tax is not
extended by a vote of the qualified electors prior to March 31, 2027, village
shall continue to impose a sales and use tax at a rate of 1%, pursuant to the
Nebraska Local Option Revenue Act, and all proceeds shall again be applied only
for the purpose of acquiring, repairing or replacing village sewer, storm sewer
and water system improvements.
(Ord. D-319, passed 1-10-17)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Introduction
   
36.02   Employment
   
36.03   Hours of work
   
36.04   (Reserved)
   
36.05   (Reserved)
   
36.06   Disciplinary action
   
36.07   Non-disciplinary suspensions and demotions
   
36.08   (Reserved)
   
36.09   (Reserved)
   
36.10   Employment of relatives
   
36.11   (Reserved)
   
36.12   Job description
   
36.13   Termination
   
36.14   Personnel administration
Pay Plan
   
36.20   Preparation and adoption
   
36.21   (Reserved)
   
36.22   (Reserved)
   
36.23   Pay increases
   
36.24   Transfer
   
36.25   Promotion or demotion
Drug Free Work Place
   
36.60   Generally
   
36.61   Drug and alcohol testing of safety sensitive employees
   
36.62   Random testing
   
36.63   Post accident testing
   
36.64   Reasonable suspicion
   
36.65   Evaluation and return to duty
   
36.66   Authorization for previous test records
   
36.67   Drug urinalysis
   
36.68   Alcohol tests
   
36.69   Training
   
36.70   Educational materials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 INTRODUCTION.
   Anyone connected with a local government unit, be he or she elected,
appointed or hired, has but one over-all objective, to serve his or her fellow
citizens in the most efficient manner possible.
   (A)   Role of Board of Trustees. The elected members of the Board of
Trustees are charged with the lawmaking and policy-making powers for the
village. Upon them rests the responsibility for giving governmental direction
to the community.
   (B)   Departmental heads.
      (1)   A trustee shall be appointed head of the following departments, in
no particular grouping or order:
         (a)   Streets, Alleys, Water, Sewer and Garbage.
         (b)   Lights.
         (c)   Police Department, Library, Swimming Pool Maintenance.
         (d)   Village Office, Pool, Daily Operations and Fire Department.
         (e)   Parks and Golf Course Departments.
      (2)   As departmental head, such Trustee shall have general charge of all
of the activities of such department including its personnel, physical
equipment and structures.
   (C)   Working Foreman. The Working Foreman, subject to the direction of the
Village Clerk, department head and the Board of Trustees, shall supervise the
activities of all departments excepting the Clerk, Treasurer, Police
Department, and Village Office. He or she shall have charge over all property
and be responsible for its maintenance and use. He or she shall plan and direct
all work and hours of employment of all employees, shall carry out all
instructions from Village Clerk, as directed by the departmental head and/or
Board of Trustees. He or she shall supervise all contract work, shall refer to
the Village Clerk as directed by the department head and/or the Board of
Trustees, all matters coming to his or her attention concerning welfare of the
village and its citizens which requires action by the Board. He or she shall
carry out the personnel policy adopted by the Board of Trustees, through the
Village Clerk.
   (D)   Role of village employee. The employee bears the responsibility of
actually doing the work necessary to fulfill the ultimate objective of local
government; that is, service to the community. With him or her rests in large
measure the public’s “money worth.” Moreover, it is the activity of the
employee, which creates the public’s impression of the village government’s
efficiency, or lack of it. Since the objective of the Board of Trustees,
Chairperson and village employee is the same, this personnel program
establishes personnel policies designed to create more harmony and cooperation
between all members of the village “team” by ensuring standards that are fair
and just for one and all while simultaneously giving the village taxpayer the
most for his or her money.
   (E)   Chain of command.
      (1)   Every employee of the village is a member of the team, regardless
of his or her duties or his or her employment status. Much like a military
organization, there is an established “chain of command” that all employees
must adhere to in order to communicate through the village governmental
organization. When the Chairperson wishes to make an announcement, the
notification makes its way to the proper commissioner and from him or her to
the operating employees in every department.
      (2)   Likewise, if an employee has a complaint or a suggestion, the
communication must proceed up the chain without skipping a single link. In this
manner, the entire village organization can be coordinated toward the over-all
objective of service to the public.
      (3)   This procedure shall not preclude the right of any taxpayer to
contact his or her elected representative concerning village business.
   (F)   Classified service. Classification is the placing of similar jobs with
similar duties into the same group for purposes of recruitment, pay, and other
such purposes. Each job is classified according to the type of work and amount
of responsibility in that job.
All positions in the village organizations are in the classified service except
elected officers; members of the boards and committees; Village Clerk;
volunteer personnel; personnel appointed to serve without pay, and consultants
or counsel rendering professional service.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004; Am. Ord. D-248, passed 1-11-2005; Am. Ord. D-
346, passed 1-7-2020; Am. Ord. D-353, passed 4-6-2021)
§ 36.02 EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Eligibility. When a vacancy occurs in a department in the village
service and it has been ascertained after proper investigation, that there is
no employee in another department or on the re-employment list sufficiently
qualified or willing to accept promotion, the Board of Trustees shall fill such
vacancy from outside the service.
      (2)   Residency. Individuals shall be recruited from a geographic area as
wide as necessary to obtain well-qualified candidates for the various types of
positions.
      (3)   Application. Applicants will be required to make application on
special forms to be furnished them by the village and furnish such information
as requested by the forms.
      (4)   Interview. As part of the pre-employment procedures, former
supervisors, employers and references provided by candidates shall be checked
as a precaution against obtaining telephone contact shall be documented, and
all reference checks shall be completed prior to an offer of employment. All
such information is to be handled as confidential. Records of oral and written
interviews and all references will become part of the applicant’s file.
   (B)   Employment status. The term “status” refers to the standing of any
employee carried on the payroll of the village. Normally, the type of position,
length of service and pay level determine an employee’s status. Each employee
will be classified in one of the following categories:
      (1)   Employees of the village are classified as follows:
         (a)   Full-time employees. Hired by the month to perform services on a
year round basis and working 40 hours per week.
         (b)   Part-time employees. Hired by the hour to perform services for
which there is temporary need or a need for less than 40 hours per week of
employment.
         (c)   Seasonal employees. Hired by the month to perform services
during a particular season of the year.
      (2)   Part-time employment shall terminate when the need for the services
for which the person was employed no longer exists.
      (3)   Seasonal employment terminates upon the end of the season during
which the service was performed.
      (4)   (a)   Persons not presently employed by the village who were hired
to fill positions listed in the annual budget, or otherwise designated as full-
time positions are considered probationary employees for the first six months
of their employment. Persons currently employed by the village who are promoted
or otherwise hired for a different position, shall be considered probationary
employees for the first three months of their employment. All employees, except
those in a temporary or part-time status, shall complete a satisfactory
probationary period or “working test” period following the effective date of
their employment, during which the employee is expected to become proficient in
his or her job. The efficiency which each employee demonstrates on the job, and
other factors, shall be the basis for determination of:
            1.   Establishment of permanent status.
            2.   Dismissal of the employee.
         (b)   At the end of the probationary period the employee shall be
automatically separated unless the department head and the Board of Trustees
certify that the employee shall remain on the job and be accorded permanent
status.
         (c)   An employee serving the probationary test period may be released
at any time.
      (5)   After an employee has successfully passed the probationary period,
he or she is entitled to the full employee benefits afforded other permanent
employees in his or her department. As a permanent employee, his or her service
with the village may terminate after the following procedures have been done:
         (a)   The Village Clerk will advise the employee in writing of the
following:
            1.   The reasons which have been presented for termination of his
or her employment.
            2.   That, if requested by the employee, a hearing will be held by
the Board of Trustees to ascertain the existence of such reasons and that the
employee may appear at such hearing and present his or her side of the story.
         (b)   If requested by the employee, within reasonable time after
giving of the aforesaid notice, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing to
ascertain if reason exists for terminating of the employment. At such hearing,
the employee may appear and present his or her side of the story, with or
without counsel.
         (c)   The Board of Trustees shall make a factual determination that
reason for termination of the employment exists.
      (6)   The reasons for dismissal shall include, but shall not be limited
to:
         (a)   Failure to report for work regularly and promptly.
         (b)   Failure to comply with personnel rules or instructions of
departmental head.
         (c)   Failure to make a reasonable effort to perform emergency service
in any position when requested to do so.
         (d)   Insubordination.
         (e)   Theft or destruction of village property or improper or
unauthorized use of village property.
         (f)   Conviction of a criminal offense.
         (g)   Unauthorized absences or abuse of leave privilege.
         (h)   Acceptance of a gift, fee, money or other valuable consideration
from any person, firm, or corporation with whom the village does business.
         (i)   Improper use of authority or official position for personal
profit or advantage.
         (j)   Use of alcoholic beverages or intoxication while on duty or
appearing for duty while under the influence of alcoholic beverages.
         (k)   To effect economics.
         (l)   Lack of work effort—loafing.
         (m)   Making of false or misleading reports.
         (n)   Failure to keep departmental head advised of things material to
the village.
         (o)   Failure to comply with employee requirements as set forth in
this chapter, as may be amended from time to time.
         (p)   Failure to satisfactorily perform assigned duties.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004; Am. Ord. D-346, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 36.03 HOURS OF WORK.
   All departments shall observe office and working hours necessary for the
efficient transaction of the services as determined by the Board of Trustees.
The very nature of the services performed by the village makes it impossible
for all departments to operate on the same schedule of working hours. Working
hours for department heads are such as necessary for continuing their work in a
satisfactory and efficient manner.
   (A)   Light and Water, Street and Alley, Parks and Recreation. The normal
workweek for forepersons and employees of the Light and Water, Street and Alley
and Park Departments shall be based on 40 hours. Hours and days worked by
employees in this department are to be established by the department head. A
lunch period of one hour shall be allowed.
   (B)   Village hall clerical employees. Village hall clerical employees shall
work 40 hours per week. The workweek shall consist of five days, Monday through
Friday excluding holidays. So long as there are sufficient available office
employees to stagger lunch hours, the village hall offices shall remain open
from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. On occasions where there are not sufficient
employees to do so, the village hall offices will be closed from 12:00 p.m. to
1:00 p.m.
   (C)   Coffee breaks. Each employee may enjoy the privilege of a rest period
or "coffee break" a maximum of 15 minutes each in the morning and in the
afternoon, providing he or she does not drive any substantial distance to reach
a particular place. "Coffee break" periods are not cumulative and work must
come first. Coffee breaks must be taken in place provided by the village.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.04 (RESERVED)
§ 36.05 (RESERVED)
§ 36.06 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   It shall be the duty of all employees in the village service to maintain
high standards of cooperation, efficiency, and economy in their work for the
village. Departmental heads and supervisors shall organize and direct the work
of their units to achieve these objectives.
   (A)   Five alternatives. Whenever work habits, attitude, production,
infraction or regulations or personal conduct of an employee falls below a
desirable standard, supervisors should point out the deficiencies at the time
they are observed. A departmental head may take any one or a combination of the
following disciplinary measures:
      (1)   Oral reprimand.
      (2)   Written reprimand (may mean no pay increase in following year.)
      (3)   Suspension without pay.
      (4)   Demotion.
      (5)   Dismissal.
      (6)   Disciplinary measures, (3), (4), and (5) above shall not be taken
by the departmental head without prior approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Suspension status. Suspension may be for a period of not to exceed 30
consecutive days for any one offense. An employee under suspension will not be
permitted to exchange suspension time for vacation time or be entitled to sick
leave during the period of suspension. An employee may, however, with the
consent of the Board of Trustees, forfeit vacation or days off in lieu of his
or her suspension.
   (C)   Demotion.
      (1)   A departmental head may, with the approval of the Board of
Trustees, demote an employee for disciplinary purposes when the actions of the
employee do not justify dismissal, or where the work of any employee has not
been satisfactory, he or she may demote the employee to less difficult work
with an opportunity to make good. Salaries of employees demoted will be reduced
to those of the lower classification as a step approved by the Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   No demotion shall be made as a disciplinary action unless the
employee to be demoted is eligible and qualified for re-employment in a lower
classification, and shall not be made if any regular employee in the lower
classification would be laid off by reason of such action. Under such
circumstances the demotion shall be automatically changed to a suspension and
may exceed the 30-day maximum until such time as a vacancy becomes available in
a classification to which the employee was to have been demoted.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.07 NON-DISCIPLINARY SUSPENSIONS AND DEMOTIONS.
   (A)   During investigation, hearing or trial of an employee for any civil or
criminal charge, when suspension would be in the best interests of the village,
and employee may be suspended for the duration of the proceedings. The
suspension shall terminate after completion of the case for which he or she was
suspended by resignation or dismissal of the employee, by reinstatement with
full recovery of any benefits lost during the period of suspension, or by other
appropriate action based on the outcome of the charges. Approval of the Board
of Trustees shall be required in all cases involving suspension of the
employees for non-disciplinary causes. If the employee obtained other
employment during his or her suspension, such earnings shall be deducted from
any back payments authorized for a reinstated employee. The employee shall
provide the village with evidence as to work hours and earnings before a
determination will be made regarding back pay.
   (B)   Demotions may be used in order that an employee whose work has not
been satisfactory but who does not deserve outright dismissal may be retained
and given an opportunity to perform less difficult work. Demotions may also be
on a voluntary basis when requested by the employee, and when assignment to
less difficult work would be to his or her advantage and to the best interest
of the village service. Such demotion shall not be granted if it causes the
lay-off or demotion of a regular, full-time employee. Salaries of employees
demoted will be reduced to that of the lower classification.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.08 (RESERVED)
§ 36.09 (RESERVED)
§ 36.10 EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES.
   As a general rule, two or more closely related employees will not be
employed to work in the same department of the village. However, this provision
may be waived by written permission of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.11 (RESERVED)
§ 36.12 JOB DESCRIPTION.
   The department heads for each department shall establish a job description
for all departmental personnel and the description shall become part of and
incorporated into this chapter upon approval thereof by the Board of Trustees
and be subject to the same terms and conditions as stated herein.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.13 TERMINATION.
   (A)   Notice of resignation.
      (1)   Employees in permanent status are expected to give at least two
weeks' notice and other employees at least three calendar days' notice prior to
their effective date of termination of village employment. If an employee quits
his or her job without prior notice and thereby impairs the effectiveness of
the village's service, his or her separation may be designated as a dismissal,
provided the reasons for failure to give notice are not justifiable.
      (2)   Employees who resign in good standing shall be eligible for re-
employment with the village subject to the same requirements and standards as
applied to new applicants.
   (B)   Lay-offs. A department head may lay-off an employee when it becomes
necessary to reduce the number of employees because of lack of work, shortage
of funds or materials, and/or completion of a project. Lay-offs shall not be
considered to be a disciplinary action.
      (1)   Order of lay-off. In determining the order of lay-off, the
following factors shall be taken into consideration:
         (a)   Efficiency of the employee as demonstrated on the job.
         (b)   Needs of service.
         (c)   Nature of work to be curtailed.
         (d)   Length of service.
         (e)   In addition to the above factors, the advisability of demoting
employees in high classes to lower classes for which they are qualified and
laying off those in lower classes may also be considered.
         (f)   No regular, full-time employee shall be laid off from any
position while a temporary employee is still employed in the same department.
Unless it is determined that two or more employees in the department in which a
lay-off is to be made possess substantial differences in their respective
qualifications to perform the work to be done, the order of lay-off shall be in
the reverse order of the date when the employees first entered the service.
      (2)   Notice of lay-off. Employees whose services with the village are to
be terminated by the village for reasons of economy or termination of need for
special services are entitled to two weeks' notice from the village.
      (3)   Re-employment. Regular, full-time employees thus laid off shall be
placed on a re-employment list for a period of one year, and shall be returned
to work in the reverse order of their lay-off, provided that the employee is
qualified and has the necessary skill for the position to be filled. An
employee who has been laid off shall keep the Village Clerk notified of his or
her address. Failure to do so will be taken as an indication that he or she is
not interested in or desirous of being re-employed.
   (C)   Dismissal.
      (1)   Employees dismissed shall forfeit their right to pay in lieu of
accrued vacation leave and shall not receive pay for such leave. If an employee
fails to give notice of resignation as provided in these personnel regulations,
the employee shall forfeit his or her right to pay in lieu of unused vacation
leave accrued during the current calendar year.
      (2)   Employees who are dismissed shall not be eligible for re-employment
unless cause for previous dismissal has been satisfactorily corrected.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.14 PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Village Clerk. The Village Clerk is responsible for the administration
of all personnel policies and, in the absence of a Working Foreman, will carry
on that duty as directed by the Board of Trustees. All personnel regulations
shall be interpreted uniformly, but liberally. Both the village and the
employee shall waive technicalities. It is to be expected that special
conditions may arise in a few cases. The Board of Trustees will adjudicate all
special cases or appeals and shall have the sole authority to grant variances
in personnel policy.
   (B)   Performance review. Not more than annually during each fiscal year of
the village, the performance of personnel in each department shall be reviewed
by the Village Clerk, Working Foreman, and the Trustee appointed as the
department head for each department excluding performance reviews of the Police
Department. The Village Police Chief shall conduct the performance of police
officers. The Village Clerk and the trustee appointed as the department head
shall conduct the performance review of the Village Police Chief. The
performance review shall be conducted using prescribed forms adopted for such
purposes by the Board of Trustees from time to time. Upon the completion of a
performance review, all personnel shall have the opportunity to receive and
discuss the performance review with the Village Clerk, Working Foreman and the
trustee appointed as the department head for each employee’s department. This
performance review shall become a personnel record and kept confidential
according to provisions of the Personnel Manual.
   (C)   Records and forms.
      (1)   Records and forms designed to aid in the proper administration of
personnel matters shall be instituted into the system as needed.
      (2)   Personnel records are confidential in nature and are only available
to the Village Clerk, Working Foreman, Chairperson and Board of Trustees.
      (3)   All employees have an official employment record. Such record shall
be continuous from the first day of continuous service. It is the
responsibility of the Village Clerk to insure that proper forms are executed
when a personnel action is desired. Employment record files are maintained by
the Village Clerk’s office. As a rule, the section in the personnel manual
dealing with the action desired indicates who is responsible for initiating the
proper form required.
   (D)   Revisions.
      (1)   The village may adopt an Employee Handbook by ordinance or
resolution, and may amend an adopted Employee Handbook by ordinance or
resolution. The village reserves the right to alter, amend, revise or change
any portion of the Employee Handbook. All employees shall be given notice of
any proposed changes and will be given an opportunity to be heard by the Board
of Trustees at a public meeting. To the extent the Employee Handbook is
inconsistent with any portion of the municipal code or other ordinance in
effect, the inconsistency shall be resolved by following the requirements of
the municipal code.
      (2)   The Employee Handbook, as adopted May 10, 2016 and amended by
resolution from time to time, shall continue to be a part of the village
personnel administration, as set forth in Ord. D-314.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004; Am. Ord. D-248, passed 1-11-2005; Am. Ord. D-
308, passed 4-7-2015; Am. Ord. D-314, passed 7-12-2016; Am. Ord. D-353, passed
4-6-2021)
PAY PLAN
§ 36.20 PREPARATION AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with the aid of his or her staff or personnel
consultants, shall review the pay schedule annually. They pay schedule for each
position shall be determined with due regard to:
      (1)   Duties.
      (2)   Authority.
      (3)   Responsibility.
      (4)   Qualifications and education required.
      (5)   Prevailing rates of pay for comparable work in other public and
private employment in the area.
      (6)   The cost of living.
      (7)   The financial condition of the village.
      (8)   Other relevant considerations.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall submit the proposed plan each fiscal year to
the Board of Trustees as an integral part of the annual budget.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.21 (RESERVED)
§ 36.22 (RESERVED)
§ 36.23 PAY INCREASES.
   (A)   The salary step increment date for each employee shall normally be the
anniversary of his or her last increase and/or annual review.
   (B)   (1)   Permanent employees may be eligible for pay increases as
indicated on the current pay schedule only if their previous service has been
satisfactory in every aspect.
      (2)   Such factors as promptness, quality and quantity of work, relations
with fellow employees, willingness to perform emergency work and general
attitude shall be considered in performance evaluation. If the employee falls
short of departmental standards for a continued level of service justifying an
increase the following year, such should be noted.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.24 TRANSFER.
   If any employee is transferred from one job to another within the same
department or from one department to another, his or her pay rate will be that
called for by the new position. The employee shall retain other benefits he or
she may have earned from his or her original date of employment by the village,
provided he or she is entitled to such benefits in the new position.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.25 PROMOTION OR DEMOTION.
   If any employee is promoted, his or her new pay rate shall be that of the
new position range in a step not to exceed that being paid employees already in
the new job classification. If an employee is demoted, he or she automatically
assumes the salary range for the lower position in the same step which the
village allows this step and it is a lower pay amount than he or she earned
prior to the demotion.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
DRUG FREE WORK PLACE
§ 36.60 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or
use of a controlled substance as defined by USCA 41 Section 706 (3) as the same
presently exists or as may from time to time be amended, is hereby prohibited
in the village work place and employees who violate the prohibition shall be
subject to the sanctions as set forth in this chapter, including, but not
limited to, termination of employment or disciplinary action set forth in §
36.07 .
   (B)   All employees will abide by the terms of the drug free work place
statement published by the village and that drug free work place statement is a
condition of employment and all employees will abide by the terms of the
statement and notify the village of any criminal drug statute conviction for a
violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after such
conviction.
   (C)   Each village employee convicted of any criminal drug statute shall be
required as a condition to retain employment with the village satisfactory
participation in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program. Cost of the
rehabilitation or drug abuse assistance program shall be paid by the employee
less any amounts that may be covered by employee health insurance or other
benefits provided by the village.
   (D)   The village shall notify any federal granting agency within ten days
after it receives notice of a conviction of any village employee under a
criminal drug statute, state or federal, either from the employee or otherwise
receives actual notice of such conviction.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.61 DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING OF SAFETY SENSITIVE EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village that its safety sensitive employees be
free of substance and alcohol abuse. Safety sensitive employees are all
employees required to maintain commercial driver's licenses, and those whose
work requires sobriety for the safety of fellow employees or the general
public. Consequently, the use of illegal drugs by safety sensitive employees is
prohibited. Further, safety sensitive employees shall not use alcohol or engage
in "prohibited conduct" as defined herein. The overall goal of this policy is
to ensure a drug-and-alcohol-free transportation and safety sensitive work
environment and to reduce accidents, injuries, and fatalities. Any safety
sensitive employee who becomes unqualified or engages in prohibited conduct as
set forth herein may be subject to termination of employment.
   (B)   (1)   The following shall be considered "prohibited conduct" for
purposes of this policy:
         (a)   No safety sensitive employee shall report for duty or remain on
duty while having an alcohol concentration of .04 or greater in their
bloodstream.
         (b)   No safety sensitive employee shall be on duty while possessing
alcohol.
         (c)   No driver shall be on duty or operate a commercial vehicle while
the driver possesses alcohol unless the alcohol is manifested and transported
as part of a shipment.
         (d)   No safety sensitive employee shall use alcohol while performing
safety-sensitive functions.
         (e)   No safety sensitive employee shall perform safety sensitive
functions within four hours after using alcohol.
         (f)   No safety sensitive employee required to take a post-accident
alcohol test shall use alcohol for eight hours following the accident, or until
he or she undergoes a post-accident alcohol test, whichever occurs first.
         (g)   No safety sensitive employee shall refuse to submit to a post
accident, random, reasonable suspicion, return to duty, or follow up alcohol or
drug test.
         (h)   No safety sensitive employee shall report for duty or remain on
duty when the employee uses any controlled substance, except when use is
pursuant to the instructions of a physician who has advised the employee and/or
driver that the substance does not adversely affect the drivers or employees
ability to operate a commercial vehicle or perform a work function safely.
      (2)   If the village has actual knowledge or has a reason to believe that
a safety sensitive employee has engaged in prohibited conduct, the village may
require the employee to submit to drug and/or alcohol testing.
      (3)   If a safety sensitive employee engages in prohibited conduct, the
employee is not qualified to drive a commercial vehicle or perform safety
sensitive jobs, and shall be immediately removed from service. The village may,
in its discretion, at the request of the employee, keep the employees position
open while such employee attempts to become requalified. The village may also
take action against the employee up to and including termination.
      (4)   Refusal to submit to the types of drug and alcohol tests employed
by the village will be grounds for refusal to hire safety sensitive employees
or to terminate employment existing safety sensitive employees. A refusal to
test is defined to be conduct that would obstruct the proper administration of
a test. Refusing to sign step two of the alcohol form is considered a refusal
to test. A delay in providing a urine, breath, or saliva specimen could be
considered a refusal. If a safety sensitive employee cannot provide a
sufficient quality of urine or breath, he or she will be evaluated by a
physician of the village's choice. If the physician cannot find legitimate
medical explanation for the inability to provide specimen (either breath or
urine), it will be considered a refusal to test. In that circumstance the
employee has violated one of the prohibitions of the regulations.
      (5)   Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Department of
Transportation (DOT), the village has implemented six circumstances for drug
and alcohol testing: preemployment testing (drug testing only), post-accident
testing, random testing, reasonable suspicion testing, return to duty testing,
and follow-up testing.
      (6)   All applicants for safety sensitive positions must submit to urine
drug test. A safety sensitive job applicant is not required to submit to a
urine drug test if the village can verify that the applicant has participated
in a valid drug testing program within the preceding 30 days and, while
participating in that program, was either tested within the past six months or
participated in a random selection program for the previous 12 months. No prior
employer has knowledge that the applicant violated any part of the regulations
within the last six months.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.62 RANDOM TESTING.
   (A)   The village conducts random drug and alcohol testing. The company or
its agents will submit all CDL drivers' names to a random selection process.
Other safety sensitive employee's names will be submitted to a separate
selection pool. The random selection system provides an equal chance for each
employee to be selected each time random selection occurs. Random selections
will be reasonably spread throughout the year. The village will drug test, a
minimum, 50% of the average number of CDL driver positions in each calendar
year at the rate established by the Department of Transportation for the given
year. Other safety sensitive, non-CDL, employees will be tested at the same
rate. The village will select, at a minimum, 25% of the average number of
driver positions in each calendar year for random alcohol testing, or at the
rate established by the DOT for the given year. Other safety sensitive non-CDL
employees will be alcohol tested at the same rate. Random selection, by it very
nature, may result in employees being selected in successive selections or more
than once a calendar year. Alternatively, some employees may not be selected in
a calendar year.
   (B)   If a safety sensitive employee is selected at random, for either drug
or alcohol testing, a village official will notify the employee. Once,
notified, every action the employee takes must lead to a collection. If the
employee engages in conduct that does not lead to collection as soon as
possible after notification, such conduct may be considered a refusal to test.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.63 POST ACCIDENT TESTING.
   (A)   The safety sensitive employee must submit to drug and alcohol testing
any time he or she is involved in an accident where a fatality is involved; or
a driver receives a citation for a moving violation arising from the accident,
and any party involved requires immediate treatment for any injury away from
the accident scene, or if any vehicle involved incurs "disabling damage" (such
as, must be towed away). Following any accident, the safety sensitive employee
must contact the village as soon as possible. The employee has been presented
with an information card setting forth instructions for post-accident drug and
alcohol testing. The employee shall follow the instructions contained on the
information card as well as any additional instructions form the company or its
representatives.
   (B)   Any time a post-accident drug or alcohol test is required, it must be
performed as soon as possible following the accident. If no alcohol test can be
done within eight hours, attempts to perform an alcohol test shall cease. If no
urine collection can be obtained for purposes of post accident drug testing
within 32 hours, attempts to make such collection shall cease.
   (C)   In the event that federal, state, or local officials conduct breath or
blood tests for the use of alcohol and/or urine tests for the use of controlled
substances following an accident, these tests may meet the requirements of this
section, provided the tests conform to applicable federal, state, or local
requirements. The village may request testing documentation from such agencies,
and ask the employee to sign a release allowing the village to obtain such test
results.
   (D)   In the event that a safety sensitive employee is so seriously hurt
that the employee cannot provide a sample of urine, breath, or saliva at the
time of the accident, the employee may provide necessary authorization for the
village to obtain hospital records or other documents that would indicate the
presence of controlled substances in the employees system at the time of the
accident.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.64 REASONABLE SUSPICION.
   Reasonable suspicion for requiring a safety sensitive employee to submit to
drug and/or alcohol testing shall be deemed to exist when an employee manifests
physical or behavioral symptoms or reactions commonly attributed to the use of
controlled substances or alcohol. Such employee conduct must be witnessed by at
least one supervisor trained in compliance with C.F.R. 382.603. Should a
supervisor observe such symptoms or reaction, the employee must submit to
testing.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.65 EVALUATION AND RETURN TO DUTY.
   Any safety sensitive employee who engages in prohibited conduct shall be
provided with the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of qualified
substance abuse professionals (SAPS). If the employee desires to become
requalified, the employee must be evaluated by a SAP and submit to any
treatment the SAP prescribes. Following evaluation and treatment, if any, in
order to become a requalified, the employee must submit to and successfully
complete a return-to-duty drug and/or alcohol test. Such employee is also
subject to follow-up testing. Follow-up testing is separate from and in
addition to the village's reasonable suspicion, post accident, and random
testing procedures. The schedule for follow-up testing shall be unannounced and
in accordance with the instructions of the SAP. Follow-up testing may continue
for a period of up to 60 months following the employees return to duty. No
fewer then six tests shall be performed in the first 12 months of follow-up
testing. The costs of any SAP evaluation of prescribed treatment shall be borne
by the employee. The village does not guarantee or promise a position to the
employee should he or she regain qualified status.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.66 AUTHORIZATION FOR PREVIOUS TEST RECORDS.
   Within 14 days of performing a safety sensitive function, DOT regulations
require that the village obtain certain drug and alcohol testing records from
the safety sensitive employee's previous employers for the previous two years.
The village will verify that no prior employer of the employee has records
indicating a violation of any DOT rule pertaining to controlled substance or
alcohol use within the previous two years. The village must also ensure that no
prior employer of the new safety sensitive employee has knowledge or records of
a violation of the DOT alcohol rules within the previous six months. As a
condition of employment, the employee shall provide the village with a written
authorization for all employers within the past two years to release such drug
and alcohol testing records as the regulations require.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.67 DRUG URINALYSIS.
   (A)   Drug testing will be performed through urinalysis. Urinalysis will
test for the presence of drugs and/or metabolites of the following controlled
substances: marijuana; cocaine; opiates; amphetamines; phencyclidine (PCP).
   (B)   The urinalysis procedure starts with the collection of a urine
specimen. Urine specimens will be submitted to an SAMHSA- certified laboratory
for testing. As part of the collection process, the specimen provided will be
split into two vials; a primary vial and a secondary vial. The SAMHSA -
certified laboratory will perform initial screenings on all primary vials. In
the event that the primary specimen tests positive, a confirmation test of that
specimen will be performed before being reported by the laboratory to the MRO
as a positive.
   (C)   All laboratory results will be reported by the laboratory to a Medical
Review Officer (MRO) designated by the village. Negative test results shall be
reported by the MRO to the village. Before reporting a positive test result to
the company, the MRO will attempt to contact the employee to discuss the test
result. If the MRO is unable to contact the safety sensitive employee directly,
the MRO will contact the village's management official designated in advance by
the village, who shall, in turn, contact the employee and direct the employee
to contact the MRO. Upon being so directed, the employee shall contact the MRO
immediately or, if after the MRO's business hours and MRO is unavailable, at
the start of the MRO's next business day. In the MRO's sole discretion, a
determination will be made as to whether a result is positive or negative. If,
after failing to contact the MRO after five days or if the employee cannot be
contacted at all within 30 days, the MRO may verify the test as positive. After
any positive verification, the employee may petition the MRO to reopen the case
of reconsideration.
   (D)   Pursuant to regulations, individual test results for employee
applicants and drivers will be released to the village and will be kept
strictly confidential unless consent for the release of the test results has
been obtained. Any individual who has submitted to drug testing in compliance
with this policy is entitled to receive the results if such testing upon timely
written request.
   (E)   An individual testing positive may make a request of the MRO to have
the secondary vial tested. The secondary vial must be tested by a different
SAMHSA - certified lab than tested the primary specimen. The individual making
the request for a test of the second specimen must pre-pay all costs associated
with the test. The request for testing of a secondary specimen is timely if it
is made to the MRO within 72 hours of the individual being notified by the
village of a positive test result.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.68 ALCOHOL TESTS.
   (A)   The village will perform alcohol testing using a device that is on the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administrations (NHTSA) Conforming Products
List (CPL) and meets the DOT's testing requirements. This may be a breath
testing device or a saliva-based testing device, and may be provided through a
vendor or agent. The device will be operated by a technician who is certified
and trained on the specific device he or she will be operating. The employee
shall report to the alcohol-testing site as notified by the village. The
employee shall follow all instructions given by the alcohol technician.
   (B)   Any initial test indicating a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of .02
or greater will be confirmed on an evidential breath testing device (EBT)
operated by a breath alcohol technician (BAT). The confirmation test will be
performed no sooner than 15 minutes and no later than 30 minutes following the
completion of the initial test. In the event the confirmation test indicates a
BAC of .02 to .0399, the employee shall be removed from duty for 24 hours or
until his or her next scheduled on-duty time, whichever is longer. Employees
with tests indicating a BAC of .04 or greater are considered to have violated
the regulatory prohibitions, which may result in disciplinary action up to and
including termination. All alcohol tests shall be performed just prior to, or
just after duty.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.69 TRAINING.
   The village shall ensure supervisors designated to determine whether or not
reasonable suspicion exists to require an employee to undergo testing under
C.F.R. 382.307 receive at least 60 minutes of training on recognizing alcohol
misuse, and receive at least 60 minutes of training on recognizing controlled
substance abuse. The training shall cover physical, behavioral, speech, and
performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse and use of controlled
substances.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 36.70 EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS.
   The village shall provide educational materials that explain the
requirements of C.F.R. 382.601, consequences of violating the regulations, and
the village's policies and procedures with the respect to meeting these
requirements. The materials supplied to safety sensitive employees may include
information on additional employer policies with respect to the use or
possession of alcohol or controlled substances, for example, the consequences
for an employee found to have a specified alcohol or controlled substances
level based on the village's authority independent of C.F.R. 382.601. The
village shall ensure each employee is required to sign a statement that he or
she has received a copy of these materials described in C.F.R. 382.601.
(Ord. D-239, passed 8-10-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   GARBAGE
         
52.   WATERWORKS
         
53.   PLUMBING AND SEWER CODE
         
54.   ELECTRIC LIGHT SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.03   Utility bills; collection
   
50.04   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.05   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized connection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.06   Diversion of service; civil action
   
50.07   Reconnection fee; deposits after default
   
50.08   Lien
   
50.09   Payment of proportionate share of cost of water and sewer extension
adjacent to vacant tracts of land
   
50.10   Rented premises; notification of default
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any individual, political subdivision, company, corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, commercial business of any nature, or
any other individual or entity receiving services from a public or private
utility company, including the village.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.02 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.03 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   Charges for water, sewer, and electrical services provided by or through the
village shall be billed jointly on a monthly basis. The village shall read, or
cause to be read, water and electric meters on or around the twenty-third day
of each month. Utility bills shall be mailed on the twenty-fifth day of each
month, and shall be due upon receipt and payable by the tenth day of each
month. Bills paid after the tenth day of each month shall have a penalty charge
added thereto, in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and on
file in the office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer. Bills not paid by the
nineteenth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent, the village may discontinue service pursuant to §
50.04. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
of the reconnection fee and additional deposit in § 50.07. The village may also
take any action authorized by law to effect collection of the delinquent
charges. If any date set forth in this section should fall on a weekend or
recognized holiday, the date of required action shall occur on the next
business day thereafter.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.04 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall not discontinue water and electric service to
any subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the village first
gives written notice as required by law by mail to any subscriber whose service
is proposed to be terminated, at least seven days prior to termination,
weekends and holidays excluded.
   (B)   Before the discontinuance of service to any subscriber by the village,
the subscriber, upon subscriber’s request, shall be provided a conference with
the Board of Trustees. The Board shall establish procedures to resolve utility
bills when a conference is requested by a subscriber. These procedures, three
copies of which are on file in the office of the Village Clerk/Treasurer, are
hereby incorporated by reference, in addition to any amendments thereto, and
are made a part of this section as though set out in full. A copy of such
procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any subscriber. The Board of
Trustees shall notify the subscriber of the time, place and date of such
conference.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the subscriber or of the
public in general.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.05 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying water, sewer or storm sewer, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which electricity, electric
current, water, sewer or storm sewer may be consumed without passing through
the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, water, sewer or storm sewer obtained unlawfully pursuant to
this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, water, sewer or storm sewer service
without the knowledge and consent of the municipality if the service has been
disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 to 70-1615 or §
50.04; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, water, sewer or storm sewer passing through
it, without the knowledge and consent of the municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.06 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering when such act results in damages
to a municipal utility. The municipality may bring a civil action for damages
pursuant to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility
service through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (b), the
municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-
1801.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.07 RECONNECTION FEE; DEPOSITS AFTER DEFAULT.
   (A)   There shall be assessed a reconnection fee for the reconnection of
electrical or water service to any property or premises after such service has
been disconnected to that property or premises. The reconnection fee shall be
$150 for reconnection during village business hours, and $300 for reconnection
at any other time. For the purposes of this section, VILLAGE BUSINESS HOURS
shall be defined as 7:30 a.m. through 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday of each
week, excluding recognized holidays. The reconnection fee shall be paid before
service is reconnected, and in the event both water and electrical service are
reconnected at the same time, there shall be only one reconnection fee under
this section.
   (B)   For any subscriber who has previously defaulted in payment of either
water or electrical charges to the village, and for whom the initial deposits
has not at that time paid the delinquent amounts in full, an additional
deposit, in addition to the reconnection fee in division (A) above, as
established by the Village Board of Trustees, shall be required.
   (C)   For any subscriber who has twice defaulted in payment of either water
or electrical charges to the village, and for whom the deposits have not at
that time paid the delinquent amounts in full, an additional deposit, in
addition to the reconnection fee under division (A) above and the deposit under
division (B), as established by the Village Board of Trustees, shall be
required.
   (D)   Neither water nor electrical service shall be restored to any property
or premises on which there is a delinquent balance for water or electrical
service, incurred at that property or premises, whether or not currently
occupying the same. Payment to such delinquent balance with a check that is
later dishonored, or on which payment is refused by a bank, shall be considered
nonpayment. After receipt of notice that a check has been dishonored or
refused, the Village Clerk/Treasurer will accept only cash, money orders,
cashier's checks or certified checks from that particular subscriber until such
delinquent charges have been timely paid for a period of one year.
   (E)   In the case where the subscriber is a tenant of the property or
premises under any lease agreement, the landlord or owner of the property or
premises on which there is a delinquent balance for utility services, incurred
by any subscriber at that property or premises, shall ultimately be responsible
for any reconnection or delinquent fee for the reconnection of utility services
after such services have been disconnected.
   (F)   The language in division (E) shall not be construed to limit any
tenant’s responsibly to indemnify any landlord for payment of any delinquent
balance or reconnection fee.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.08 LIEN.
   When there is assessed any reconnection fee for the reconnection of any
utility service after such service has been disconnected, there shall be an
automatic lien on the property or premises on which there exists such
reconnection fee. Payment of the reconnection fee is required upon any request
to reconnect any utility service that has been disconnected on the property or
premises. The automatic lien on the property or premises survives any new or
subsequent ownership of the property or premises.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.09 PAYMENT OF PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF COST OF WATER AND SEWER EXTENSION
ADJACENT TO VACANT TRACTS OF LAND.
   (A)   There are and will be situations within and without the village where
the village sanitary sewer and/or water lines have been or hereafter may be
extended adjacent to vacant lots or tracts of land and such vacant lot or tract
of land has not been assessed any part of the cost for such extension when a
residence or other improvement is constructed or moved onto such lot or tract
and it is required by village ordinance that such improvement be connected to
the village sewer system or the owner thereof desires to connect to the village
water and/or sewer system.
   (B)   In such situations, the owner of such tract of land shall prior to the
making of such improvement pay to the village, in addition to the regular
connection and tap fees, his proportionate share of the cost of such water and/
or sewer extension which shall be a sum equal to one-half of the lineal foot
cost of such extensions, when laid, multiplied by the number of feet of the
tract on which the improvement is made as is adjacent to the street or alley in
which the extension is made, plus interest at 9% from the date of completion of
the extension; provided, if the water extension is larger than six inches, the
cost shall be adjusted to reflect the difference between the cost of a six inch
extension and the cost of the extension as actually made; and provided, if the
sanitary sewer extension is larger than eight inches, the cost will be adjusted
to reflect the difference in cost between a ten inch extension and the cost of
the extension as made.
   (C)   As to each project, the Village Engineer will, upon completion of the
extension, certify to the village the per lineal foot cost of the extension and
the adjustment to be made to determine proportionate cost share as aforesaid.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 50.10 RENTED PREMISES; NOTIFICATION OF DEFAULT.
   At the time of providing any notice under §
50.04(A) above to any subscriber that is a tenant or renter of any property or
premises, the village may provide a copy of such notice also to the landlord or
owner of such property or premises. At the time of establishing an account for
water or electrical service, the subscriber shall consent in writing to a copy
of such notice being sent to the landlord or owner, and shall provide the name
and address of the landlord or owner for purpose of delivery a copy of such
notice.
(Ord. D367, passed 3-7-2023)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Trash and garbage
   
51.03   Prohibiting of burning
   
51.04   Village Street Commissioner
   
51.05   Separation of disposable trash
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes cans, bottles, refuse, animal or vegetable matter, manure,
offal, and other waste or discarded material.
   TRASH. Includes paper, dry vegetation, leaves, sticks, and branches.
   (Ord. D-58, passed 3-10-1986)
§ 51.02 TRASH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   The occupant of each dwelling and place of business is required to
cause all garbage and trash accumulated on or from such place to be placed in
containers or dumpsters provided by the village to be removed from each
dwelling and place of business at least weekly for residential removal and
semi-weekly for commercial removal and, more often if necessary, to prevent the
creation of a nuisance. For items not allowed removal by this chapter in the
containers, such removal will be made by the occupant of each dwelling and
place of business. Items not to be placed in the container or dumpster provided
shall be large rocks, chunks of concrete and asphalt and toxic chemicals.
   (B)   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to throw, dump, or sweep any garbage or trash into any street
or alley, to throw or dump the same upon any vacant lot within the corporate
limits of this village, to place the same in any container or receptacle owned
or assigned usage to another person unless permission of said person has been
obtained, or to place any trash or garbage container, receptacle, or
incinerator in the public streets or alleys of the village.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in the sum
of not less than $10 and not more than $100.
   (D)   All owners and/or occupants of each dwelling and place of business
within the corporate limits of the village who have contracted with the village
for obtaining village utilities shall be required to pay a monthly fee for the
collection of garbage and trash as determined by resolution of the Board of
Trustees, to be collected by the Village Clerk at the time of collecting
electricity and water charges.
(Ord. D-58, passed 3-10-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 PROHIBITING OF BURNING.
   (A)   The open burning of garbage and trash or any burnable material done so
for disposal of said material shall be and is prohibited from the corporate
limits of the village commencing on April 15, 1986 and thereafter.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in the sum
of not less than $10 and not more than $100.
(Ord. D-58, passed 3-10-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 VILLAGE STREET COMMISSIONER.
   In addition to other duties as required, the Village Street Commissioner
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Weekly, supervise the collection and removal of all garbage from all
streets, alleys, village and school district properties in the village and from
all business and dwelling sites in accordance with all rules and regulations
governing the same;
   (B)   On or before the twenty-fifth day of each month, certify under oath to
the Village Clerk the names of the occupants and persons whose trash and
garbage that has been collected and removed by the village or its contractor;
   (C)   Supervise, police, regulate and maintain the sites designated as
village dumping grounds and access thereto and the dumping of garbage, trees,
trash and refuse at such dumping ground;
   (D)   Refuse and prevent the dumping of materials which are poisonous or
harmful or adversely affect the maintenance and operation of the dump or in the
opinion of the Commissioner are not proper materials to be placed in the dump;
   (E)   Collect and remit to the Village Treasurer such fees for dumping as
shall be set by resolution of the Board of Trustees;
   (F)   Establish hours when the dump shall be open and prevent access thereto
at all other times;
   (G)   Periodic inspection of all streets and alleys of the village for the
purpose of detecting noncompliance with this chapter shall be made by the
Street Commissioner, who shall submit a report of its findings at each regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of the village and at any other time requested
to do so by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. D-58, passed 3-10-1986)
§ 51.05 SEPARATION OF DISPOSABLE TRASH.
   (A)   All trash receptacles provided by the village for collection of trash
and garbage shall be either green or brown.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit grass clippings,
leaves, hot ashes, rocks, car parts, tires, concrete, wood, motor oil, grease
or garden waste in any brown trash receptacle provided by the village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any trash consisting of
anything other than grass clippings, leaves, or garden waste in any green trash
receptacle provided by the village.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not
less than $10 and not more than $100 for each offense.
(D-122, passed 7-10-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: WATERWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Rules applicable to patrons
   
52.02   Compliance with Plumbing Code
   
52.03   Improvement district
   
52.04   Rates, tap fees, deposits and charges
   
52.05   Property protected by village
   
52.06   Consumer must give notice of repair
   
52.07   Consumer must give notice of removal
   
52.08   Leakage reported
Service
   
52.20   Application for service
   
52.21   Payments; penalty for delinquency
   
52.22   Connections
   
52.23   Supplying to others
   
52.24   Meters
   
52.25   Hydrants closed
   
52.26   Clerk order water turned on
   
52.27   Village may examine
   
52.28   Fire hydrants
   
52.29   Tapping mains prohibited
   
52.30   Water service installation
   
52.31   Termination of water service, notice, hearing
   
52.32   Connection to municipal water system required
Regulations
   
52.45   Service pipes protected
   
52.46   Fire hydrants
   
52.47   Excavations, where prohibited
   
52.48   Wellhead area encroachment
   
52.49   Private water wells
Backflow/Backsiphonage Prevention
   
52.60   Purpose
   
52.61   Definitions
   
52.62   Declaration of nuisance
   
52.63   Unlawful connections; new installations and repairs
   
52.64   Prevention devices required
   
52.65   Minimum protection
   
52.66   Installation inspection
   
52.67   New meter installation
   
52.68   Maintenance
   
52.69   Testing
   
52.70   Authority
   
52.71   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 RULES APPLICABLE TO PATRONS.
   The rules and regulations hereinafter named shall be considered a part of
the contract of every person, company or corporation who is supplied with water
by the village, and every such person, company or corporation by so taking
water shall be considered and held to consent to be bound thereby, and whenever
any of them or such others as the village may hereafter adopt shall be
violated, the water shall be shut off from the building or place of such
violation, even though two or more parties are supplied therewith through the
same conduct and shall not be turned on again except by order of the village
and on such terms as the village shall determine, which shall in no case be
less than the payment of the necessary expense of shutting off and turning on
such water supply and after a satisfactory understanding with the party that no
further cause for complaint shall arise, and in case of such violation, the
village shall have the right to declare any payment made by the person guilty
of such violation for water forfeited and the same shall be forfeited.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 1)
§ 52.02 COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE.
   Materials furnished and labor done by the applicant and all construction
done by the applicant shall in all ways comply with requirements of the Village
Plumbing Code.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 13)
§ 52.03 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   The village shall by resolution of necessity create an improvement district
for purpose of extending the water mains and assess the cost thereof, not to
exceed the benefits on abutting property as provided by law. Water mains will
be extended and water furnished to consumers outside the village limits on such
terms and conditions as shall be agreed to by the Board of Trustees. In the
event that objections are made to the forming of an improvement district and
are sufficient to prevent such formation, water main extension and assessment
of costs, the village will extend its mains and furnish water to such applicant
on such terms and conditions as shall be agreed to by the Board of Trustees. In
any such extension and without regard to any contribution made, all water mains
within village streets, public roads or on private lands for which an easement
has been obtained on and shall remain the property and under sole control of
the village.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 14)
§ 52.04 RATES, TAP FEES, DEPOSITS AND CHARGES.
   Rates, tap fees, deposits, and charges for use of water shall be such as are
from time to time set by resolution by the Board of Trustees and shall apply
even if the resident has his or her own well.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 15)
§ 52.05 PROPERTY PROTECTED BY VILLAGE.
   The water station and all its machinery, pumps and generators shall be kept
in neat and proper order at all times and operated with care and skill, and all
connections, pipelines, circuits and conducts emanating from the station for
the transmission of water shall be seasonably inspected and kept in order.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 20)
§ 52.06 CONSUMER MUST GIVE NOTICE OF REPAIR.
   Should any meter get out of order or repair or fail to register properly,
the consumer will be charged at the rate of average monthly consumption, as
shown by the meter when in order for six months previous or fraction thereof,
if the same has not been used that long.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 21)
§ 52.07 CONSUMER MUST GIVE NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   If any consumer shall remove from the premises for which his license was
issued before the expiration of the same, or, if such premises shall be
destroyed by fire, he shall notify the village thereof, who shall cause the
water to be shut off the premises.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 22)
§ 52.08 LEAKAGE REPORTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief, or any other person acting with
police authority, to report to the village all cases of leakage of water or
waste of the same, and all violations of this chapter or any other ordinance
relating to the water system of the village coming to their knowledge, and they
shall enforce the observance of the ordinance so far as they have authority so
to do.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 19)
SERVICE
§ 52.20 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Every person desiring to be supplied with water must make application
therefor to the Village Clerk upon blanks furnished by him for that purpose;
the application must state fully and truly all the uses to which the water is
to be applied, and no different or additional use will be allowed except by
permission of the village. All applications for permits to use the water must
be signed by the owner or his agent and accompanied by a deposit in amount as
determined by resolution of the Board of Trustees which will be refunded to the
consumer less unpaid charges and fees upon discontinuance of the service. If
application for refund of deposit is not made to the Village Clerk within five
years from discontinuance of the service, the same shall be declared forfeited
and transferred to the General Fund.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 2)
§ 52.21 PAYMENTS; PENALTY FOR DELINQUENCY.
   All charges for water will be payable at the end of each month and tap fees,
charges, rents, and rates for building and other special purposes will be
payable on demand. 10% will be added if not paid within ten days after the same
becomes due and all officers of the Waterworks Department are positively
prohibited from extending credit to anyone. The village shall shut-off the
water from any premises if any charge is not paid within ten days after the sum
shall become due and payable.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 3)
§ 52.22 CONNECTIONS.
   Water will not be turned on in any house or private service pipe except upon
the order of the village, not until the applicant shall have paid the deposit
required. Plumbers are strictly prohibited from turning the water into any
service pipe except on the order or permission of the village; provided, that
this rule shall not be construed to prevent plumbers from admitting water to
test pipes and for that purpose only.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 4)
§ 52.23 SUPPLYING TO OTHERS.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, nor suffer them to take
water off his premises, nor after water is introduced into a building or upon
any premises, shall any person make or employ any plumber or other person to
make any tap or connection with the pipe upon the premises for the alteration,
extension or attachment without the permission of the village.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 5)
§ 52.24 METERS.
   (A)   Each property receiving municipal water service which is zoned Highway
Commercial, Commercial, or Industrial shall be required to have a water meter
installed for metering such water service. Meters shall be of a type approved
by the Village Water Department and shall be installed at the village’s expense
by the village’s Water Department. All water meters shall be maintained and
serviced by the village. Water meters will be installed at the location
selected by the village. Meters placed outside of a building will be installed
in a pit below the front line. The pit will be constructed at the user’s
expense in accordance with specifications furnished by the Water Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a village employee to
alter, calibrate, service, or maintain any water meter through which village
water service is provided.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 6) (Am. Ord. D-193, passed 4-10-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.25 HYDRANTS CLOSED.
   All persons taking village water shall keep the hydrant, tap, hose, water
closets, urinal, bath and other fixtures allotted to their use closed except
for obtaining water for use and shall be responsible for any damage or injury
that may result to others or to the village from the improper use of the water.
All persons taking the water shall keep their own service pipes, stop cocks and
apparatus in good repair and protect them from frost at their own expense and
risk and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water, and it is expressly
stipulated by the village that no claim shall be made against them or either of
them by reason of the breaking of any service cock or tap, or if from any cause
the supply of water should fail or from damage arising from shutting off water
to repair mains, making connections or extensions, or for any other purpose
that may be deemed necessary by the village; the right is reserved to cut off
the supply of water at any time, any permit granted to the contrary
notwithstanding.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 7)
§ 52.26 CLERK ORDER WATER TURNED ON.
   When water has been turned off from any consumer, the water service shall
not turn it on without the written consent of the Village Clerk.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 8)
§ 52.27 VILLAGE MAY EXAMINE.
   Every person taking water supplied through the water system of this village
shall permit the village at all hours of the day between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. to enter his premises or buildings to examine the pipes and fixtures and
the manner in which water is used and must at all times, frankly and without
concealment, answer questions relative to its consumption.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 9)
§ 52.28 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All persons who are regular consumers of the village water and who shall
desire to do so may, in proper application to the village, be permitted to
connect with the street mains and lay at their own expense large pipes with
hydrants and hose couplings to be used only in case of fire, but the hydrants
and hose couplings shall at all times be under the supervision and direction of
the village and shall be free of charge for fire purposes only.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 10)
§ 52.29 TAPPING MAINS PROHIBITED.
   No person except the village will be permitted under any circumstances to
tap the mains or distributing pipes of the water system or any of its
connections or to insert stop-cocks or ferrules therein.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 11)
§ 52.30 WATER SERVICE INSTALLATION.
   The village will furnish materials and labor for construction of water
service from the water main in the abutting street to a curb stop placed on the
nearest line of the applicant’s property, except in commercial and industrial
areas, the curb stop will be placed at the street curb. Prior to the location
of the curb stop, a meter pit shall be installed at the village’s expense. Such
service and materials shall be maintained by the village. Water service to
single-family residential properties shall not exceed one-inch piping.
Materials and labor for the water service from the curb stop to the residence
shall be furnished by the applicant and this portion of the water service will
be maintained by the customer or lot owner.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 12) (Am. Ord. D-229, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 52.31 TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICE, NOTICE, HEARING.
   The service of water to any customer will be shut off for nonpayment of
charges or water use fees or for noncompliance by the customer with the
provisions of this chapter, only in accordance with procedures set forth in §
50.03.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 23)
§ 52.32 CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the village and abutting any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a water main, or premises which themselves are subject to an
easement, if there is situated within the area subject to the easement a water
main or lateral, shall be connected to such main or lateral as part of the
village water system. This mandatory connection shall be at the expense of the
owner of the premises, who shall be required to connect or tap into the water
main or lateral with the proper water service connection in accordance with the
provisions of this municipal code within 90 days after the date of official
notice to do so, provided that a water main or lateral is available.
(Ord. D-276, passed 8-11-2009)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.45 SERVICE PIPES PROTECTED.
   Consumers must keep their own service pipes and attachments in order and
from being frozen, and no reduction in rates will be made for the time such
pipes may be frozen or out of use for any cause other than being shut off by
order of the village. If any part of a water connection already established is
not wanted for use, the consumer shall so notify the village and have the same
disconnected and shall pay the expense of so doing and a proper reduction in
rates will be made from that date.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 16)
§ 52.46 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants erected in the village for the purpose of extinguishing fires
are declared to be public hydrants, and no person or persons other than members
of the Fire Department in the active discharge of their duties as such, or the
village shall open the hydrants or attempt to draw water from the same or at
any time uncover or remove any protection from any of the hydrants or in any
manner interfere with the same; no person authorized to open hydrants shall
delegate his authority to another, or let out, or suffer the same to be taken
from any house in the village except for the purpose strictly connected with
the Fire Department or as they may accompany the fire apparatus on occasion of
fire.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 17)
§ 52.47 EXCAVATIONS, WHERE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make any excavation in the village within six feet of any
laid water pipe while the ground is frozen or dig or uncover so as to expose to
the frost any water pipe in the village, except under the direction of the
village.
(1979 Code, Ch. 8, § 18)
18B   Morrill - Public Works
Waterworks   19
§ 52.48 WELLHEAD AREA ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to construct, install,
or maintain any of the below described facilities within a horizontal distance,
as set forth below, from any village water well.
Category Distance (feet)
Category                                                    Distance (feet)
Water well                                                  1,000
Sewage lagoon                                               1,000
Land application of municipal/industrial waste material     1,000
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                                   1,000
Underground disposal system (septic system, cesspool, etc.) 500
Corral                                                      500
Pit toilet/vault toilet                                     500
Wastewater holding tanks                                    500
Sanitary landfill/dump                                      500
Chemical or petroleum product storage                       500
Sewage treatment plant                                      500
Sewage wet well                                             500
Sanitary sewer connection                                   100
Sanitary sewer manhole                                      100
Sanitary sewer line                                         50
 
   (B)   In addition to the penalty set forth in § 10.99 of this code, the
village may seek injunctive relief in the District Court to enjoin any
continuing or recurring violation of this section.
(Ord. D-222, passed 2-11-2003; Am. Ord. D-284(a), passed 1-10-2012) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 52.49 PRIVATE WATER WELLS.
   (A)   The use of private water wells for any purpose within the village
negatively impacts the well levels of the village's municipal wells and creates
point source locations for potential contamination of the public water supply.
It serves the public interest to eliminate, to the extent possible, locations
of possible point source contamination. Additionally, a reduction in municipal
water supply affects the health, safety and welfare of all village residents
and businesses to the extent that it impacts availability of drinking water,
sanitation and fire protection. Therefore, the drilling, construction and use
of new private water wells should be and hereby is prohibited, and the use of
private water wells presently operating within the village is restricted.
   (B)   No private water or other wells shall be permitted or drilled or
constructed within the village limits.
   (C)   Private water wells or private water sources within the village limits
completed and continuously operating year to year on or before November 1,
2010, may continue to operate if continuously metered for the same purpose and
capacity, except that in times of declared water shortage emergency, all uses
other than domestic or agricultural use will cease, except as permitted in
division (E) below. Pumping to fountains and ponds is deemed non-essential.
   (D)   During a declared water shortage emergency, the hours of pumping and
amount of water pumped from private wells within the village for irrigation or
agricultural purposes may be restricted pursuant to a restriction plan adopted
by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees to ensure domestic supply to all
village wells. Well owners will be given notice of the hearing at which the
restriction plan resolution will be considered.
   (E)   During a declared water emergency all private water well owners will
observe the same day/hour lawn irrigation restrictions imposed upon village
municipal water users and will comply with any other emergency water
restrictions as are imposed upon other village residents generally.
(Ord. D-281, passed 12-7-2010)
BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION
§ 52.60 PURPOSE.
   The village finds that backflow and backsiphonage of contaminants into a
public water system can be a threat to public health and safety. Direct or
indirect cross connections within a water distribution system, including within
a water customer’s water distribution system, are among possible structural
arrangements which can result in backflow and backsiphonage. In the interest of
public health and safety, the village adopts the following backflow and
backsiphonage prevention program and cross connection control program.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. Used to prevent either backflow or backsiphonage, an air-gap
separation is the unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (NONPRESSURE-TYPE BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTER). Used
as protection for direct or indirect water connections to all types of polluted
or  contaminated liquids where the preventer is not subjected to back pressures
and is installed on the discharge side of the last control valve. This
preventer should not be subjected to continuous flows for periods of more than
12 hours.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the water distribution system from other than the intended liquids, mixtures or
substances of the public water supply system.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water, or other liquids, mixtures or
substances into a water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   DOUBLE CHECK-VALVE ASSEMBLY (BACKFLOW PREVENTER). Used as protection for all
direct or indirect water connections through which foreign substances might
enter the system in such concentrations as to constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual or potential connection or structural
arrangement within a water distribution system through which it is possible to
introduce into the public water supply system any water, liquids, mixtures or
substances, other than the intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of
the public water supply system.
   NONTOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance of a nonpoisonous nature that may create a
moderate or minor hazard to the domestic water system. Hazardous connections
include:
      (1)   Connections to food processing lines, including, but not limited to
those carrying syrups, lard, and beer;
      (2)   Connections to steam and steam boilers where the steam does not
come in contact with toxic substances;
      (3)   McDaniel tees or steam clean-up connections in food plants,
apartment house boilers, or pressing boilers where toxic compounds are not
used;
      (4)   Connections to enclosed circulating systems, such as radiant-
heating systems and refrigerated-water systems where toxic compounds are not
used.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTER). Used as a protection for
direct or indirect water connections to all types of polluted or contaminated
liquids where the preventer is not subjected to backpressures. This device may
be installed for use under continuous line pressure.
   REDUCED-PRESSURE DEVICE (BACKFLOW PREVENTER). Used as protection for direct
or indirect water connections where the device may be subject to backpressures
from toxic chemicals, sewage, or other lethal substances.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance (liquid, solid, or gaseous), including raw
sewage and lethal substances, that when introduced into the water supply system
creates or may create a danger to the health and well being of the consumer.
Hazardous connections include flush valve toilet, direct connection to
contaminated vessel or system, and ship watering point.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.62 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any actual or potential connection or structural arrangement within a water
distribution system through which it is possible to introduce into the public
water supply system any water, liquids, mixtures or substances other than the
intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of the public water supply
system shall be declared a nuisance.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.63 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS; NEW INSTALLATIONS AND REPAIRS.
   No installation or repair within the water distribution system, including
the customer’s water distribution system, shall be made in such a manner:
   (A)   That a cross-connection shall exist;
   (B)   That it will be possible in any manner to allow the flow of any water
or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the water supply system other
than the intended water, liquids, mixtures or substances of the public water
supply system; or
   (C)   That it will be possible in any manner to allow the flowing back of
water or other liquids mixtures or substances into the water supply system due
to negative pressure in the water distribution system.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.64 PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   A backflow or backsiphonage prevention device approved by the village shall
be installed at the customer’s expense in the customer service pipe when any of
the following conditions are found by the village:
   (A)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
   (B)   Premises in which, in the opinion of the village, substances are
handled in a manner as to create an actual or potential hazard to the public
water supply;
   (C)   Premises having existing or potential internal cross connections;
   (D)   Premises where in the opinion of the village it is impossible or
impractical to make a complete cross connection premises survey;
   (E)   Premises having more than one customer service pipe.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.65 MINIMUM PROTECTION.
   When backflow or backsiphonage prevention devices are required by this
subchapter, the prevention devices shall provide a minimum level of protection
as provided in the following graph; provided, however, this shall be a minimum
standard of protection. When, in the opinion of the village, a different level
of protection would be more appropriate, the Superintendent shall prescribe the
method of backflow or backsiphonage protection.
 
                                                                              Degree of Hazard          Recommended Device
                                                                                                        For Backflow        For
                                                                                                                            Backsiphonage
Direct or Indirect Waste Connections                                          Severe Moderate Minor Air Reduced  Double     Pressure Atmos-
                                                                                                    Gap Pressure Check      Vacuum   pheric
                                                                                                        Device   Valve      Breaker  Vacuum
                                                                                                                 Assembly            Breaker
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                              
I.   Subject to back pressure:                                                                             
   A.   Pumps, tanks and lines handling:                                                    X   X         
      1.   Sewage and lethal substances                              X                                
      2.   Toxic substances                                                              X   X         
      3.   Nontoxic substances                                       X      X                X        X                   
   B.   Water connection to steam and steam boiler:                                                     
      1.   Boiler or steam connection is toxic substances                                            
      2.   Boiler or steam connection is nontoxic substances (boiler  owoff              X   X         
through approved gap)                                                         X                                
                                                                                                               
                                                                                     X              X   X        X
                                                                                                                                
                                                                              X                    X   X                  X        X
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                       X        X
                                                                              X                    X   X                           
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
II.   Not subject to backpressure:                                               X              X   X        X          X        X
   A.   Sewer connected waste line (not subject to waste stoppages)                                                       
   B.   Low inlets to receptacles containing toxic substances                                                             
   C.   Low inlets to receptacles containing nontoxic substances                              Each     case       should   be
   D.   Low inlets into domestic water tanks                                                  treated  separately          
   E.   Coils or jackets used as heat exchanges in compressors, degreaso ,                                               
etc.:                                                                                                                          
      1.   In sewer lines                                                                                             
      2.   In lines carrying toxic substances                                                                         
      3.   In lines carrying nonsubstances                           X                   X   X                           
   F.   Flush valve toilets                                             X                      X                  X        X
   G.   Toilet & urinal tanks                                                              X                              
   H.   Trough urinals                                                        X                Each     case       should   be
   I.   Valved outlets or fixtures with hose attachments that may consti te           X        treated  separately          
a cross connection to:                                                        X                    X   X                          X
      1.   Toxic substances                                                X              X                              
      2.   Nontoxic substances                                             X                                            
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                              X                    X   X                  X        X
                                                                                     X              X   X        X          X        X
 
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. D-130, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 52.66 INSTALLATION INSPECTION.
   The village shall inspect any premises to determine if a backflow device is
required and to what level of protection will be necessary to protect the
public health and safety.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.67 NEW METER INSTALLATION.
   All backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices shall be installed in a
manner that the device shall be accessible.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.68 MAINTENANCE.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices shall be maintained in good
working condition by the customer at the customer’s expense.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.69 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
village. Testing shall be by such person as may be designated by the village at
a charge to the customer of $5 per inspection. Any required maintenance or
repairs shall be at the expense of the customer and subject to the approval of
the village.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.70 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The village shall have the authority to issue any order consistent
with the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the public health
and safety. Any order of the village shall be in writing and shall clearly
state the nature of the order, compliance requirements, and set a reasonable
date by which compliance must be met. A copy of all orders will be mailed to
the customer by certified mail, return receipt requested or hand delivered.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event the
village determines or has substantial reason to believe that a violation of
this subchapter exists and that the violation may cause the introduction of a
toxic substance into the village water system, the village may cause the
immediate disconnection of the water service pending a correction of the
defect.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
§ 52.71 APPEALS.
   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
subchapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the village; that the time
allowed for compliance with any order of the village is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular premise make it unreasonably difficulty to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this subchapter, the owner may file
a written notice of appeal with the Village Clerk within ten days after the
decision or order of the village has been made. The Board of Trustees shall
hear all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed, to
modify the decision or order of the village. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or equity.
Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(Ord. D-108, passed 6-7-1993)
CHAPTER 53: PLUMBING AND SEWER CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Basic Plumbing Code adopted
   
53.03   Village utilities; duties
   
53.04   Inspections
   
53.05   Permit applications
   
53.06   License
   
53.07   Licensed plumber or drain layer responsible for damages
   
53.08   Licensed plumbers responsible for acts of employees
   
53.09   Connection charges
   
53.10   Sewer user charge system
   
53.11   Sewer rates for sewer use
Regulations
   
53.25   Deposit of excrement, garbage or waste in unsanitary manner unlawful
   
53.26   Discharge prohibited unless suitable treatment available
   
53.27   Privies prohibited
   
53.28   Connection to public sewers required
   
53.29   Private sewage disposal system
   
53.30   Regulation of discharges
   
53.31   Tampering with sewage works prohibited
   
53.32   Connections
   
53.33   Inspection and approval
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.02 BASIC PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   [ Editor's Note: For provisions on the adoption of the Plumbing Code, see §
150.02.]
§ 53.03 VILLAGE UTILITIES; DUTIES.
   The construction, repair and maintenance of all sewer and water lines,
drains, and cesspools, whether public or private, shall be under the
supervision and control of the village.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The village shall be permitted to enter all properties for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The village shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the village shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the village employees and the village shall indemnify
the company against loss or damage to its property by village employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.30(H).
   (C)   The village shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
property involved.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.05 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Before commencing the construction, modification or repair of any water line
or sewer line, drain or cesspool, the layer shall first obtain a written permit
from the Village Clerk; such permit shall be upon the ground at all times
during the progress of the work and must be shown to any officer in authority
on demand. Application for permit must be made on forms supplied by the
village, in writing and signed by the owner of the property to be connected or
his agent. The application must set forth the description of the property where
said line is to be connected and shall state whether such line shall run to a
private house, store or factory. If the line is to be connected with the line
built by private parties or to pass through property not owned by the
applicant, the written consent of the owner must be procured and filed with the
application. Such applications shall fully describe and show the exact location
of the proposed connection and appurtenances thereto, a record shall be kept by
such plumber or layer covering full details of such work and a return shall be
filed forthwith upon the completion of such work with the Clerk, who shall make
a permanent record of the same for future use by property owners, the village
and plumbers.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the village. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the village.
   (B)   All permit and inspection fees shall be paid in the manner and in the
amounts as determined by resolution by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.06 LICENSE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall lay sewer or water pipe or make
connections thereto without first obtaining a license and posting a bond as
herein provided. License to perform such work shall be issued to any person who
is currently licensed by the County of Scotts Bluff or who has performed such
work in the village for the past five years or who can establish by sworn
statements that he has been in the business of performing such work and is
familiar with BOCA Standard Plumbing Code. License shall issue upon paying of
occupation tax and posting bond in the amount of $5,000 assuring village from
damages to its streets, sewers and water system and the users of village
streets and alleys from damage to person and property resulting from activities
of the licensee or anyone in his employ or under his control. All licenses
shall expire on August 1 following the date of issuance.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.07 LICENSED PLUMBER OR DRAIN LAYER RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGES.
   The licensed plumber or drain layer who connects with the public utilities
shall be held responsible on his bond for any damages he may cause to life or
property. He shall restore the streets or alleys to the satisfaction of the
village and make good any settlement of ground or pavement caused by the
excavations made by the plumber or drain layer under or by virtue of any permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter. In the event of settling within
one year after being refilled, the village shall have the right and it shall be
his duty to demand and require restorations by the party who made such
excavation.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.08 LICENSED PLUMBERS RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS OF EMPLOYEES.
   All licensed plumbers shall be held responsible for all acts of their agents
or employees done by virtue of his or their said license.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.09 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   Applicants for permits shall pay an inspection charge as shall be set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees. All inspection charges shall accompany the
application for permit.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.10 SEWER USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the village
to collect fees from all users who contribute wastewater to the village
wastewater treatment facility and sewage disposal system. The proceeds of such
fees and charges so derived will be used for the purpose of operating and
maintaining the public wastewater treatment facility and sewage disposal
system.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      MAY. Permissive.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of
not more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than
300 mg/l.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the rapacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
replacement.
      RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the village’s treatment works
whose lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling
purposes only.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      SS (denoting SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface
of or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such
compost, and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
      USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
      USER CHARGE. That portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
      WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished
and/or installed by the village or furnished and/or installed by a user and
approved by the village.
   (C)   (1)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues
to pay costs of annual operation and maintenance, including replacement and
coats associated with debt retirement of bonded capitol associated with
financing the wastewater treatment facility and sewage disposal system which
the village may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user charge system.
That portion of the total user charge which is designated for operation and
maintenance, including replacement of treatment works, shall be established by
this section.
      (2)   That portion of the total user charge collected which is designated
for operation and maintenance, including replacement purposes as established in
division (D), shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows.
         (a)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account).
         (b)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the replacement account shall be made annually from the
operation, maintenance and replacement revenue in the amount set by resolution.
      (3)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Account
and the Replacement Account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
   (D)   (1)   The following classes of user’s charges and fees to those users
are established. The village does establish a sewer use fee for all residential
and commercial entities who are presently utilizing the village sewer system
and all residential and commercial entities who hook-up to the system
hereafter. The rate shall be based upon the residential (SFR) single family
classification equivalent units. The classification of users and the equivalent
unit set for said classification are as follows.
Classification Equivalent Unit
Classification                                                                    Equivalent
                                                                                  Unit
Single-family residence; permanent trailer, townhouse/condominium unit, if billed 1.0
individually
Multi-family residential units; duplexes, apartments, townhouses, when in one
building and billed collectively:                                                 .25
   One bedroom apartment without kitchen                                       .6
   Buffet apartment                                                            .7
   Up to and including 2 bedrooms and no more than 1.5 bathrooms               .8
   3 bedrooms and no more than 2 bathrooms                                     1.0
   4 bedrooms and over or more than 2 bathrooms                                .25
   For each coin-operated washing machine                                      1.0
   Mobile home (trailer) in court
Transient rental units, hotels, motels, hospitals, nursing homes, rental units in 1.0
residence. Basic fee includes manager’s quarters                                .2
   Each additional rental room w/o cooking facilities                          .3
   Each additional rental room w/cooking facilities                            .25
   Each coin-operated washing machine
Bars, restaurants
   For business with less than 25 seating capacity                             1.0
   For the second 25 seating capacity or part thereof                          .6
   For each additional 25 seating capacity (after the first 50)                .4
(Note: Based above on 100% for open six days a week; reduce by 20% for each day
not open less than 6)
Service stations w/o wash rack                                                    1.5
   Each additional wash rack (per bay for car washes)                          1.0
Commercial or public buildings such as stores, offices, warehouses and similar
having no process water:                                                          1.0
   Minimum for each building or customer up to 2,500 sq. ft./building area     .6
   For each additional 3,000 sq. ft. building area or part thereof             .4
   Additional for each pair of public restrooms
Churches, non-profit organization halls (no residence or regular eating           1.0
facilities)
Schools, public or private:
   Basic rate, per pupil capacity
      0-50                                                                  2.0
      Each additional 50 students or fraction thereof                       1.0
   Multiply above basic rate by 1.2 factor if school has gymnasium and showers
   Multiply above basic rate by 1.2 if school has cafeteria
Hospitals and nursing homes per bed                                               .25
 
      (2)   Sewer charges based upon metered water service.
         (a)   Contributors using process water and/or users with an equivalent
single family classification in excess of 2.5 may be required by the village or
may at the customer’s request have water meters installed.
         (b)   Water and sewer use charges shall be based upon water meter
readings when a meter is required or requested.
         (c)   Sewer rates for sewer use shall be as set forth by the Board of
Trustees.
         (d)   The customer shall pay for the water meter, appurtenances and
installation costs as set forth by the Board of Trustees.
         (e)   If a contributor has a consumptive use of water, or in some
other manner uses water which is not returned to the wastewater collection
system, the user charge for that contributor may be based on a wastewater meter
(s) or separate water meter(s) installed and maintained at the contributor’s
expense and in a manner acceptable to the village.
      (3)   Each single family classification equivalent unit shall be charged
to the user at the rate as set forth by the Board of Trustees. Each partial
unit shall be charged at the pro rata share of said charge. Sewer user rates
may be modified or changed after the passage of this section by ordinance
passed by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (4)   The sewer use fee shall be billed monthly and shall be due and
payable to the Village Clerk- Treasurer in the same manner and at the same
times as provided by the village for payment of water use charges.
      (5)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the village
treatment works or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with any other substances causes identifiable increases in the
costs of operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works shall
pay for such increase costs. The charge to such user will be as determined by
the responsible treatment facility operating personnel and approved by the
Village Board of Trustees.
   (E)   (1)   The village will review the user charge system every two years
and revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure the system generates
adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance, including
replacement, and that the system continues to provide for the proportional
distribution of operation and maintenance, including replacement costs among
users and user classes.
      (2)   The village will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction
with a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement of the treatment works.
(Ord. D-78, passed 10-20-1988)
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, publication and approval. All parties understand that the user charge
system takes precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts
between the grantee and users (including industrial users, special districts,
other municipalities, or federal agencies or installations) which are
inconsistent with the requirements of the Clean Water Act, being 33 USC 1251 et
seq., § 204(b)(1)(A), and the corresponding regulations.
(Am. Ord. D-94, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 53.11 SEWER RATES FOR SEWER USE.
   (A)   Sewer rates for the sewer use of the sewer use charge system shall be
classified as follows.
      (1)   Residential classification.  This classification includes all sewer
use required by a single-family residence, trailer, townhouse or condominium
unit, unit of a multi-family residential building, unit of a duplex, apartment
unit, or mobile home.
      (2)   Light commercial classification.  This classification includes all
sewer use that is not a residential classification, as defined above, and uses
water in an amount according to annual water meter reading of under 25,000
gallons of water per year. Annual water meter readings shall occur annually at
the end of each fiscal year of the village.
      (3)   Middle commercial classification.  This classification includes all
sewer use that is not a residential classification, as defined above, and uses
water in an amount, according to annual water meter readings, of 25,000 to
49,999 gallons of water per year. Annual water meter reading shall occur
annually at the end of each fiscal year of the village.
      (4)   Heavy commercial classification.  This classification includes all
sewer use that is not a residential classification, as defined above, and uses
water in an amount, according to annual water meter readings, of over 50,000
gallons of water per year. Annual water meter readings shall occur annually at
the end of each fiscal year of the village.
   (B)   Sewer rates for the sewer use classifications shall be as follows.
      (1)   For all residential classifications, the sewer rate shall be $16
per month.
      (2)   For light commercial classifications, the sewer rate shall be $25
per month.
      (3)   For middle commercial classifications, the sewer rate shall be $50
per month.
      (4)   For heavy commercial classifications, the sewer rate shall be $70
per month.
   (C)   The sewer rates set forth in this section are for the cost of any
operation and maintenance, and do not include the cost of replacement or debt
retirement of bonded capital that may be associated with financing improvements
to a waste water or sewage disposal system, which the village may by ordinance
designate to be paid separately by the users of the system.
   (D)   All sewer rates set forth in this section shall become effective with
the bills due December 10, 2017, following the final passage and approval of
Ord. D-333, and any amendments to Ord. D-333.
(Ord. D-325, passed 8-8-2017; Am. Ord. D-333, passed 10-10-2017)
REGULATIONS
 § 53.25 DEPOSIT OF EXCREMENT, GARBAGE OR WASTES IN UNSANITARY MANNER UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.26 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED UNLESS SUITABLE TREATMENT AVAILABLE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any part under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.27 PRIVIES PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.28 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the village and abutting on any
street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the village is
required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is available as defined herein.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.29 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §§
53.25 through
53.28, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the village.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and
other information as are deemed necessary by the village. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the village at the time the application is
filed in the amount and manner as established by resolution.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
village. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the village when
the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality’s
Title 124 Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of
On-site Wastewater Treatment Systems.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in division (D) of this
section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage system shall be
abandoned in accordance with Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality’s
Title 124 Rules and Regulation for the Design, Operation and Maintenance of On-
site Wastewater Treatment Systems.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.30 REGULATION OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the village to a
storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the village will give consideration to such factors as the quantities
of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials
of construction of sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (56°C);
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° to 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (1.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid from pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the village as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein;
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300 parts
per million by weight; or containing more than 350 parts per million by weight
of suspended solids; or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
average sewage flow of the village, shall be subject to the review of the
village. Where necessary in the opinion of the village, the owner shall
provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to
reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by weight; or
reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; or control the
quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
village and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approvals are obtained in writing.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) of this section, and which in
the judgment of the village may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (J) of this section;
      (2)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, of sand,
or of other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   All interceptors shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning by the user and for inspection by the village;
      (2)   All interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight;
      (3)   The owner shall ensure that all interceptors work properly and
effectively;
      (4)   All interceptors shall fully comply with all applicable provisions
of the Village Code of Ordinances and any other applicable village regulations;
      (5)   The owner shall be solely responsible for the cost and completion
of interceptor cleaning, inspection, and maintenance, and repairs;
      (6)   Pumping of all interceptors shall be performed when, in the case of
a grease interceptor the total volume of captured fats, oils, grease, and food
sludge in a grease interceptor or, in the case of a sand and oil interceptor,
the total volume of captured sand and oil displaces 20% or more of the volume
of the interceptor. In no case shall pumping be performed less often than every
two months. Pumping the interceptor means emptying it and cleaning the side
walls, cross pipes, and inlet and outlet pipes.
      (7)   All interceptors shall be opened, inspected, and maintained a
minimum of once per month;
      (8)   Interceptors may be inspected by the village as often as deemed
necessary to assure compliance with this section. Such inspections may be
unannounced. The village may review the facilities’ records on proper pumping,
cleaning, maintenance, and disposal activities and may order the facility to
make such changes or repairs as necessary to comply with the provisions of this
section;
      (9)   The owner shall be solely responsible for the cost and completion
of all repairs of interceptors. Repairs required by the village shall be
completed within 21 calendar days from the date of receipt of written notice of
required repairs;.
      (10)   The owner shall be responsible for the lawful and effective
disposition of all grease, sand, oil, and materials removed from interceptors;
      (11)   The owner shall maintain records of all interceptor cleaning,
maintenance, disposal, and repair, and shall make all records available to the
village on demand. Such records shall include the date and time of the event
recorded as well as the date the record was created and shall include the
amount of material pumped, the repair conducted, or similar description of the
recorded event. All records shall be signed by the authorized owner or
operator, or a representative of the owner or operator. If cleaning and
maintenance are done by facility owners, written maintenance and cleaning
procedures as well as the above-required records are required and shall be made
available to the village upon demand. All required written records shall be
maintained for three years from the date the record was created;
      (12)   No grease, sand, or oil sources shall be connected directly to
sewer lines or be allowed in any other manner to bypass the interceptor;
      (13)   Sewage shall not be allowed to pass through a interceptor;
      (14)   Access covers or manholes shall be clearly identifiable and
provided over each interceptor. The manhole shall have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, the removal of grease, sand, oil, and other
materials, and gray water sampling activities. The location of the interceptor
shall be kept free and clear of debris. Blocking or covering the access to
manholes is prohibited. The owners or designated representatives (facility
managers) of the food service facilities or transportation service
establishments shall open access covers or manhole covers at the request of the
village;
      (15)   Interceptors shall be designed and maintained so as to prevent
surface water or groundwater from entering the interceptor through leaks in the
plumbing or cracks in the interceptor itself;
      (16)   Under-the-sink grease interceptors shall be cleaned at a minimum
of once per week, or more often as necessary, to prevent pass-through of grease
and other solids into the village’s sewage system. Facilities with under the
sink grease interceptors are subject to the same recordkeeping requirements as
indicated above;
      (17)   The owner shall allow the village ready access at all reasonable
times to all parts of the facility for the purpose of interceptor inspections,
observations, records examination, measurements, sampling, testing, and any
other function deemed necessary under this section.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his expense.
   (H)   When required by the village the owner of any property services by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the village. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solid analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment thereof, by
the industrial concern.
   (K)   The village shall have the right to enforce the provisions of this
section, to bring a cause of action for a violation of this section under §
10.99 of the village Code of Ordinances, and to bill the owner in violation of
this section for the costs incurred by the village to bring any interceptor
into compliance with this section.
(Ord. D-336, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 53.31 TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.32 CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to break
into or otherwise open any lateral or trunk sewer at any other place than where
a "Y" has been placed for the connection of service sewers, except upon written
permission of the village. All trenches left open shall be properly guarded in
the daylight hours and in the night time shall be further guarded by the
placing of lighted lanterns at the excavation, which lanterns shall be kept
lighted from one-half hour after sundown until one-half hour before sunrise.
All trenches and excavations in streets and alleys shall be refilled in a
careful and workmanlike manner so as to replace as nearly as possible all
excavated material and leave the surface in as good condition as before the
commencement of the work. All damages to the paved surface of a street or alley
shall be repaired by the person making the connections or service line repair.
Excavations in streets and alleys shall be made in such manner as to impede
travel as little as possible. The village may determine and limit the time such
excavation may remain open, and when unnecessarily delayed, he may direct that
the number of workers be increased to hasten the work to such an extent as he
may deem necessary. All property owners shall be held responsible and shall
repair, at their own expense, any depressions in trenching from the point of
connection to their respective lot lines.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the village to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (E)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (F)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
village before installation.
   (G)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
§ 53.33 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   No construction, or any portion thereof, of any water or sewer line shall be
covered up until the same has been inspected and approved. Lines laid in
connection with construction or remodeling of a house or building for which a
building permit has been issued shall be inspected and approved by the County
Building Inspector. All other construction shall be inspected and approved by
the village. Such inspection shall be made before any part thereof is covered
up. All work which is found to not be in accordance with specifications of the
Plumbing Code shall be removed.
(Ord. D-77, passed 10-20-1988)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRIC LIGHT SYSTEM
Section
   
54.01   Electrical distribution area
   
54.02   Point of delivery
   
54.03   Kind of electricity
   
54.04   Nonconforming service lines
   
54.05   New long service line
   
54.06   Demand meters
   
54.07   Disconnection of discontinuance of service
   
54.08   Rates
   
54.09   Changing rules and regulations
   
54.10   Sales of supplies by village limited
   
54.11   Separate metering
   
54.12   Extension of service
§ 54.01 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION AREA.
   Electricity will be furnished to all customers within the village electrical
distribution area on the terms and conditions set forth in this chapter.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, part)) (Am. Ord. D-225, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 54.02 POINT OF DELIVERY.
   Except as provided in §
54.05, the village will furnish electricity at a point on the customer’s
property line which is nearest to the village power line; at such point, the
electricity will be metered and delivered to the customer. The village will
furnish line to the meter and meter loop (if used); customer will supply and
maintain service line and poles from there on. In the event that the power and
service line is underground, the electricity will be delivered to a meter
pedestal and breaker installed by the customer at a point on the customer’s
property which is nearest to the village power line. In the event of overhead
power line, as to both overhead and underground service line, electricity will
be furnished to the meter used by the customer located on a village pole in the
alley, street or road which is nearest to the customer’s property line.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 1(A)) (Am. Ord. D-225, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 54.03 KIND OF ELECTRICITY.
   The village will furnish 120, 208, 240, 277 or 480 electric voltage to
commercial, industrial and agriculture (irrigation) customers. The village will
furnish 120, 208, or 240 electric voltage to residential customers. If
electricity of a different voltage or characteristic is required, the customer
will pay the additional cost for supplying such electricity, including the
additional cost of required transformers and meters.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 1(B)) (Am. Ord. D-225, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 54.04 NONCONFORMING SERVICE LINES.
   As to customers whose point of delivery and meter is not presently located
in the street, alley or road immediately adjacent to the customer’s property,
if such nonconforming service line is relocated or rebuilt, the meter will be
moved to the street, alley or road to conform to the above stated point of
delivery. If the need for such relocating or rebuilding results from customer’s
activities, which includes trees on the customer’s property, growing into the
service line, the cost of such relocation will be paid by the customer. For
purposes of this section, pre-existing, nonconforming service lines shall
include only such lines installed prior to the effective date of Ordinance D-
194.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 1(C)) (Am. Ord. D-225, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 54.05 NEW LONG SERVICE LINES.
   In the event that the customer’s location and type of electrical usage is
such that it is necessary to extend the primary power line onto the customer’s
property, the village will, in such manner as it deems most appropriate and
feasible, extend the village’s primary power line to an agreed point on the
customer’s property. The reasonable cost of such extension will be paid by the
customer. Prior to installation the customer shall provide the village, in
recordable form, a utility easement 20 feet in width extending ten feet on each
side of the center line of the primary power line from the point of entry onto
the property to the point of delivery. Maintenance, repair, and replacement of
such lines shall be done by the village at the customer’s expense. For purposes
of this section, PRIMARY POWER LINE shall be defined as any power line of 600
volts or more.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 1(D)) (Am. Ord. D-225, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 54.06 DEMAND METERS.
   All connected loads of 50KW or more, except irrigation pumps and sugar beet
dumps, shall be on demand meters.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 1(E)) (Am. Ord. D-225, passed 4-8-2003)
§ 54.07 DISCONNECTION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The village will furnish electric current in accordance with these
regulations unless prevented by unavoidable causes, but expressly reserves the
right to disconnect and discontinue said service for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   For repairs necessary to be made on any part of the circuit;
      (2)   Failure to maintain wiring in accordance with the current National
Electrical Code;
      (3)   For misrepresentation in relation to condition of the wiring or the
consumption of current for light and power;
      (4)   Failure to pay for extensions or installations as agreed.
   (B)   The disconnecting of electrical service for any reason other than
making of repairs will be made only after the giving of seven days written
notice and after the customer has had an opportunity for a hearing before the
Village Board of Trustees. The notice shall state the reasons for proposed
disconnection. The mailing of notice of intent to disconnect, addressed to the
customer or the leaving of such notice at the place of service shall constitute
the giving of notice.
(Ord. D-57, passed 1-6-1986)
§ 54.08 RATES.
   Rates for consumption of electricity and deposits shall be as from time to
time fixed by ordinance.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 4)
§ 54.09 CHANGING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The village expressly reserves the right to change and amend these rules and
regulations by ordinance as may from time to time be deemed advisable.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 5)
§ 54.10 SALES OF SUPPLIES BY VILLAGE LIMITED.
   The village is not in the business of selling electrical supplies, materials
or equipment, and sales of such supplies, materials or equipment is limited to
materials used in the making of an extension or addition to village electrical
service under an agreement as described in §
54.05 and used materials not needed by the village for emergencies.
(1979 Code, Ch. 10, § 6)
§ 54.11 SEPARATE METERING.
   Electricity furnished to each customer shall be separately metered. For the
purposes of this section a dwelling consisting of a person occupying a dwelling
consisting of two rooms and a bath, or more, shall be considered a customer.
(Ord. D-27, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 54.12 EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   If the village is requested to extend its electric service to a site on
which there is no improvement in existence or in process of construction, the
village shall compute the cost thereof and the party making request shall pay
such sum to the village to be held as a guarantee that a permanent improvement
requiring electricity will be erected. Upon completion of such improvement and
connection to the village power line, such sum, without interest, shall be
refunded.
(Ord. D-50, passed 10-8-1984)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Emergency regulations
   
70.03   Police enforcement
   
70.04   Refusal to obey
   
70.05   Traffic officers
   
70.06   Traffic citations; form and records
   
70.07   Traffic citations; disposition
   
70.08   Traffic citations; illegal cancellation
   
70.09   Construction of provisions in civil suit
   
70.10   Destruction of traffic citation
   
70.11   License plates
   
70.12   Operator’s license and vehicle registration required
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
   Powers and duties of peace officers, see Neb. RS 60-683
   Powers and duties of State Patrol, see Neb. RS 81-2005
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this title, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676)
§ 70.02 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Police Chief is empowered to make and enforce temporary traffic
regulations to cover emergencies.
§ 70.03 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Police Department is hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered
to exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian and animal and vehicular traffic of
every kind in streets, in parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle
shall stop upon the signal of any police officer.
§ 70.04 REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees or the Village Police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which
may have been placed at any such intersection.
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic
citations containing notices to appear. The Village Clerk shall be responsible
for the issuance of such books and shall maintain a record of every such book,
and each citation number therein issued to the Village Police. The Clerk shall
require and retain a receipt for every book so issued. The Village Clerk shall
require the return of all copies of every traffic citation which has been
spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made and not issued to an alleged
violator.
   (B)   All records of traffic citations required herein shall be audited at
least biennially by a member of the Board of Trustees.
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The Village Police upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of this title shall deposit a copy of the traffic
citation with the Municipal Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Municipal Attorney,
such citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction, or other official action by the judge of the court, including a
forfeiture of bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail with or payment of a
fine to the court by the person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the Village Police to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Citations authorized, see Neb. RS 29-422
   Citation contents; procedure, see Neb. RS 29-424
§ 70.08 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; ILLEGAL CANCELLATION.
   Any person who cancels or solicits the cancellation of any traffic citation
in any manner other than as provided in this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense.
§ 70.09 CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS IN CIVIL SUIT.
   Nothing in this title shall be construed as justifying, absolving or
rendering blameless, either directly or indirectly, any person operating or
owning any vehicle for any injury or damage to person or property due to
recklessness, incompetency or negligence in the operation of any vehicle.
(1979 Code, Ch. 23, § 9) (Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 70.10 DESTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC CITATION.
   No person shall tear up or destroy any parking tag placed upon any vehicle
by any police officer of this village or to disregard the summons contained on
such tag and fail to appear in court as directed by such tag.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 70.11 LICENSE PLATES.
   License plates required on every motor vehicle shall be kept clean at all
times and shall be attached in such a manner as to be clearly readable at a
distance of 100 feet, and under no circumstances shall they be obstructed by
any portion of the vehicle.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 70.12 OPERATOR’S LICENSE AND VEHICLE REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any street or public highway
without first having registered the same and displaying the registration on the
vehicle nor without first having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license
and carrying the license on their person or in or upon the motor vehicle.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   One-way traffic; no through traffic
   
71.03   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.04   Crosswalks
   
71.05   Signs; signals
   
71.06   Stop signs
   
71.07   School crossing zones; designation
   
71.08   Bicycles
   
71.09   Equipment required
   
71.10   Unnecessary noise
   
71.11   Glass, nails and tacks
   
71.12   Coasting
Operating Regulations
   
71.25   U-turns
   
71.26   Reckless driving
   
71.27   Careless driving
   
71.28   Negligent driving
   
71.29   Passing
   
71.30   Following too closely
   
71.31   Right-of-way at intersections
   
71.32   Stop rules
   
71.33   Yield to pedestrian signs
   
71.34   Occupancy of front seat
   
71.35   Projecting loads
   
71.36   Vehicles prohibited in city parks
   
71.37   Engine brakes prohibited
   
71.38   Riding on outside of vehicles; permitting; prohibited
Speed Limits
   
71.50   General speed limit
   
71.51   Near schools
   
71.52   Speed contests
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The Board of
Trustees shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC; NO THROUGH TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel
in any street, or alley located in the municipality and shall provide for
appropriate signs and markings when said streets have been so designated by
resolution.
   (B)   Wherever no through traffic signs are erected designating a street or
portion thereof as a no through traffic zone, it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive a motor vehicle the entire length of the designated zone.
(Am. Ord. D-201, passed 2-5-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
§ 71.04 CROSSWALKS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, establish and maintain by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street crosswalks at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
§ 71.05 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the
regulation or prohibition, the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed, and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulation or prohibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obedience to, placement of, and authority over traffic-control devices, see
Neb. RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 71.06 STOP SIGNS.
    Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
§ 71.07 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the Board of Trustees
in conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01) Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.08 BICYCLES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, from time to time, by resolution, designate
sidewalks on which the operating or driving of a bicycle is not allowed. On
such sidewalks "No Bicycle" signs shall be placed and it shall be unlawful to
operate or drive a bicycle on any sidewalk where such signs have been placed.
(1979 Code, Ch. 23, § 6)
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate this section or
fail to perform any act required by this section. The Chief of Police, for
violation of this section or any provision thereof shall impound the bicycle up
to one week for each violation.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.09 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Every motor vehicle while in use on the streets of this village shall be
equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop
and hold such vehicle, including two separate means of applying the brakes, and
shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient horn in good working order
or other efficient signal devices and shall have, from sunset until sunrise,
two or more whitish lights on the front thereof, one on each side, which lights
shall be plainly visible from the direction in which such vehicle is
proceeding; which lights and all other lighting devices used on such vehicles
shall be in compliance with the laws of the state. No person shall operate any
vehicle which is equipped with electric lights which give off light which
confuses travelers or pedestrians on streets or crosswalks. Every vehicle
having a width of 80 inches or more shall display clearance lights as required
by the laws of the state. All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good
working order. Vehicles while in operation between the hours of sunset and
sunrise shall have a red light plainly visible from the rear of said vehicle.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.10 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   Every motor vehicle operating on the streets of this village shall be
equipped with an adequate muffler which shall not be cut out when used on the
street. No person operating a motor vehicle shall permit the pipes, mufflers or
other devises to emit sounds of exhaust in a loud or annoying manner nor shall
any person operating a motor vehicle do so in any manner as to make or cause to
be made any unnecessary or excessive tire noise and all such vehicles shall be
operated in as noiseless a manner as possible; provided, that the provisions of
this section shall not apply to the apparatus of the Fire Department.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.11 GLASS, NAILS AND TACKS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street within this
village any tacks, nails, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made
of or containing glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of
glass upon any such street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the
person responsible for such breakage, shall at once remove or cause the same to
be removed from the street.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.12 COASTING.
   The driver of a motor vehicle, when traveling upon a down grade upon any
street, shall not coast with the gears of the vehicle in neutral.
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 71.25 U-TURNS.
   U-TURN is defined as a change in direction, in one continuous movement, of
more than 110 degrees. U-turns shall not be made on any street or alley except
at a street intersection. The Board of Trustees may, from time to time,
determine by resolution, intersections at which a U-turn is not permitted; at
such intersections "NO U-TURN" signs shall be placed, and it shall be unlawful
to make a U-turn at any such intersection.
(1979 Code, Ch. 23, § 4) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.26 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle with indifferent regard or wanton
disregard for the safety of persons or property, or in such a manner as to
endanger life, limb, person, or property, or as to interfere with the lawful
traffic or use of the streets, shall be deemed guilty of reckless driving.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.27 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle with the village carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty or
careless driving.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.28 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who shall operate a motor vehicle in a negligent manner shall be
deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.29 PASSING.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, every vehicle passing another vehicle in
the same direction shall, except in four-lane streets, pass at a safe distance
to the left of the vehicle overtaken. A vehicle may pass on the right side of a
vehicle which is making or signaling to make a left turn.
   (B)   Except in four-lane streets, no vehicle shall pass or attempt to pass
another vehicle going in the same direction while traversing any street
intersection or at any railway crossing unless directed to do so by a traffic
or police officer.
   (C)   In four-lane streets only, vehicles may pass one another going in the
same direction on either the right or the left side.
   (D)   There shall be no passing from Webster Street east of the corporate
limits to the west of the corporate limits in the village.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.30 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having regard for the speed of such vehicle and the
traffic upon and the condition of the street.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right except where directed otherwise by
a traffic officer or by a traffic direction device.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he might otherwise have hereunder.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle approaching but not having entered an
intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle within such intersection
and turning therein to the left across the line of travel of such first
mentioned vehicle, provided the driver of the vehicle turning left has given a
plainly visible signal of his intention to turn.
      (4)   The driver of any vehicle upon a street within the village shall
yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing said street within any clearly
marked crosswalk or any regular pedestrian crossing included in the
prolongation of the lateral boundary line of the adjacent sidewalk at the end
of a block, except at intersections where the movement of traffic is being
regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
      (5)   Every pedestrian crossing a street within the village at any point
other than a pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles upon a street.
   (B)   Emergency vehicles. Vehicles of the Police and Fire Departments with
activated emergency lights and sirens shall have the right-of-way in any street
and through any procession.
   (C)   Funeral procession. No vehicle shall be driven through any funeral
procession or any authorized parade.
(Am Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.32 STOP RULES.
   (A)   Stop signs. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle
approaching a stop sign from the direction from which such stop sign is read,
to fail to come to a complete stop prior to crossing the stop line, or if none,
the marked cross-walk, or if none, at the point nearest the intersection with a
view of approaching traffic on the perpendicular road way. This division shall
not apply to the operator of any motor vehicle who is directed otherwise by a
law enforcement officer at the intersection at the time such person approaches
the intersection.
   (B)   Emergency vehicles. Upon the approach of any Police, Fire Department,
civil defense, rescue vehicle or any other type of emergency vehicle which is
giving audible signal and displaying activated emergency lights, or when
directed to do so by a police officer or firefighter, the driver of every other
motor vehicle shall immediately drive the same to a position as near as
possible and parallel to the right hand edge or curb of the street, clear of
any intersections of streets, and shall stop and remain in such position unless
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter, until the Police, Fire
Department, civil defense, or other emergency vehicle shall have passed, or
until directed to proceed by a police officer or firefighter. It shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business, to
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or to drive into or park such vehicle within 300 feet, where the fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999; Am. Ord. D-215, passed 12-10-2002) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 71.33 YIELD TO PEDESTRIAN SIGNS.
   Traffic control designated as "yield right-of-way to pedestrians" or similar
markings conveying the same meaning shall be erected in such places and in the
manner designated by the Village Board, and the operator of every vehicle
shall, upon approaching any such sign where pedestrians are present with a
marked crosswalk, bring the motor vehicle to a complete stop and shall remain
stopped until the pedestrians are no longer present in the crosswalk.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.34 OCCUPANCY OF FRONT SEAT.
   Front seat occupancy of any vehicle while the same is in the process of
being started or in motion shall be limited to one driver and in addition not
more than two persons over the age of 12 years.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.35 PROJECTING LOADS.
   Between the period of sunset and sunrise, all vehicles, if loaded with
projecting material, must carry a red light at the extreme outer end of such
material and, at all other hours, a red flag 12 inches by 12 inches shall be
displayed.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 71.36 VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN CITY PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or park any motor vehicle,
mini bike, motorcycle, off road recreational vehicle of any and all types or
any other powered vehicle in the village park, except on roadways,
thoroughfares, streets, motor vehicle parking areas or other areas designated
by the village for use by the motor vehicles.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.37 ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle equipped with
engine brakes to use such brakes on any public street within the village.
(Am. Ord. D-204, passed 7-9-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.38 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLES; PERMITTING; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride on the running board, hood, top, fender or other
exterior part of any motor vehicle that is in the process of being started or
is in motion on any street or parking lot within the village. Nor shall the
driver of such motor vehicle knowingly permit any person to ride in such a
manner.
(Ord. D359, passed 10-12-2021)
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.50 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
within the corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than 25 miles per hour
within the Residential District, and 20 miles per hour within the Business
District, unless a different rate of speed is specifically permitted by
ordinance. Where a different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate
signs shall be posted. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a
highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Basic speed rule, see Neb. RS 60-6,185
   General speed limits, see Neb. RS 60-6,186
   State, county, and local authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 71.51 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour past such premises, and such driver shall stop at all stop
signs located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall be unlawful for
such driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such stop signs are
located at, or near, such school premise.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.52 SPEED CONTESTS.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any street or public highway
in any race, speed competition or contest, drag race or acceleration contest,
test the physical endurance, exhibition of speed, or acceleration, or for the
purpose of making a speed record, and no person shall in any manner participate
in any race, competition, contest, test or exhibition.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Brakes and turned wheels required
   
72.02   Parallel parking required; exceptions
   
72.03   Designation of type of parking
   
72.04   Areas of prohibited parking
   
72.05   Alleys; restrictions
   
72.06   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
72.07   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.08   Schools, theaters
   
72.09   Street intersections
   
72.10   Obstructing traffic
   
72.11   Curb parking; painting of curbs
   
72.12   Display or repair
   
72.13   Current registration
   
72.14   Time limits
   
72.15   Snow removal; maintenance; and emergency snow routes
   
72.16   Emergency vehicles
   
72.17   Truck parking
   
72.18   Parking on sidewalks, pedestrian crossings or parkways prohibited
   
72.19   Improved curb area
   
72.20   Parking on crosswalk, in front of private or public driveway, and
crosswalk on Center Avenue
Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
72.25   Definitions
   
72.26   Designation of onstreet parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
72.27   Designation of offstreet parking stalls, spaces, and access aisles
   
72.28   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
72.29   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
   
72.30   Permits
   
72.31   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.35   Tickets
   
72.36   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parking, see Neb. RS 60-680
   General provisions on parking, see Neb. RS 60-6,164 through 60-6,168
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 BRAKES AND TURNED WHEELS REQUIRED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street.
§ 72.02 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked, shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in such manner as
to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway
and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any
other parked vehicles, except where the Board of Trustees designates that
vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel at the
curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or
pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls. No vehicle shall be
parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is
available for parking.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 DESIGNATION OF TYPE OF PARKING.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
§ 72.04 AREAS OF PROHIBITED PARKING.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 ALLEYS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles on an overall length less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging or loading freight may back to the curb but shall occupy as little
of the street as possible.
§ 72.07 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 SCHOOLS, THEATERS.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping
except for loading or unloading of passengers or freight, of vehicles at the
curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school house, school
building, or theater, and such curbs adjacent to the entrance of a school
house, school building, or theater shall be painted red to indicate such
prohibition.
§ 72.09 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where the
curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.10 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 CURB PARKING; PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless the street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the Board of
Trustees. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees or its agent to cause
the curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter. No person, firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street or
in any manner set aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any
street, or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of
portions of streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or
limited shall be done only by the municipality through its proper officers, at
the direction of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person
shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same,
while standing on the public streets or alleys of this municipality, except in
case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any vehicle without first securing a current registration as
provided by law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a
time limit for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
   (C)   No motor vehicle or other vehicle shall be allowed to park for more
than a period of 12 hours continuously in the village at any point on Webster
Street or at any point on Center Avenue between Railway Street and Franklin
Street.
(1979 Code, Ch. 17, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.15 SNOW REMOVAL; MAINTENANCE; AND EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall by resolution designate streets or
portions of streets within the village to be designated as emergency snow
routes. A designation of any street or portion of street as a snow emergency
route shall in no way affect designation of that street or portion of street
for any other purpose.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave any vehicle
stranded or parked on any emergency snow route during a designated snow
emergency, as determined on the basis of falling snow, accumulated snow, or
freezing rain, until the snow has been removed from such street or portion of
street. Any vehicle parked or stranded in an emergency snow route during a
designated snow emergency may be impounded by the village at the vehicle
owner’s expense. The vehicle may be retrieved from the village impound upon
payment of towing expenses by the vehicle owner. In addition, any vehicles not
moved from the emergency snow routes may have snow plowed up against the
vehicles, and it will it will be the sole responsibility of the vehicle owners
to have the snow removed from the vehicles.
   (C)   All streets designated as an emergency snow route during designated
snow emergencies shall be clearly marked by appropriate signs indicating the
restriction provided for in this section.
   (D)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, or if unavailable the Vice
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, shall have authority to declare a snow
emergency when the accumulation of snow or freezing rain warrants such
declaration.
(Am. Ord. D-320, passed 2-7-2017) Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate during snow emergencies, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 72.16 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this title, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same in
an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of and conditions on authorized emergency vehicles, see Neb. RS
60-6,114
§ 72.17 TRUCK PARKING.
   The Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, provide space for parking of
trucks which shall be marked with signs and no semi-trailer or trunk, other
than a pick-up, shall be parked in any space on any street or alley which is
not so marked.
(1979 Code, Ch. 23, § 5(f))
§ 72.18 PARKING ON SIDEWALKS, PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS OR PARKWAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall by unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in such a manner
as to have any portion thereof on or extending over a public sidewalk or a
designated pedestrian crosswalk or on or extending over any parkway which is
defined to be that distance between the public sidewalks and the curb.
(Am. Ord. D-174, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.19 IMPROVED CURB AREA.
   (A)   CURB AREA as herein used is that area lying between the property lot
line and the cement street curb or, in absence of a cement street curb, that
area between the lot line and a line six foot distance from that portion of the
street used by through automobile traffic.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended a motor
vehicle in or to drive a motor vehicle on that portion of the curb area which
the owner or resident of the adjacent lot has improved by planting and
maintaining trees, flowers, shrubbery, or grass.
(Ord. D-45, passed - -)
§ 72.20 PARKING ON CROSSWALK, IN FRONT OF PRIVATE OR PUBLIC DRIVEWAY, AND
CROSSWALK ON CENTER AVENUE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place any vehicle in front of
a public or private driveway, within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing, on a crosswalk or within 16 feet on the south side or 32 feet on the
north side of the crosswalk located in the 500 block of Center Avenue. Any
person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in § 10.99.
(Ord. D-265, passed 10-9-2007)
HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 72.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated in response to the act.
(Neb. RS 18-1736)
   HANDICAPPED or DISABLED PERSON.
      (1)   Any individual with a severe visual or physical impairment which
limits personal mobility and results in an inability to travel unassisted more
than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic,
orthotic, or other assistant device, any individual whose personal mobility is
limited as a result of respiratory problems, any individual who has a cardiac
condition to the extent that his or her functional limitations are classified
in severity as being Class III or Class IV, according to standards set by the
American Heart Association, and any individual who has permanently lost all or
substantially all the use of one or more limbs.
      (2)   Temporarily handicapped or disabled person means any handicapped or
disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such
manner for no longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 18-1738)
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating the use of parking spaces, including access aisles,
designated for use by handicapped or disabled persons, the unauthorized
possession, use, or display of handicapped or disabled parking permits, or the
obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in accordance and in
conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01)
§ 72.26 DESIGNATION OF ONSTREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons whose motor
vehicles display the distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or
disabled persons pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113, handicapped or disabled persons
whose motor vehicles display a distinguishing license plate issued to a
handicapped or disabled person by another state, such other handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, as certified
by the village, whose motor vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS
18-1739, and such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739. All such permits shall be
displayed by hanging the permit from the motor vehicle's rearview mirror so as
to be clearly visible through the front windshield. The permit shall be
displayed on the dashboard only when there is no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees so designates a parking space or access
aisle, it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to
and visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-
1737. In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated
by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent
to the space or access aisle.
(Neb. RS 18-1736)
§ 72.27 DESIGNATION OF OFFSTREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES, AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The village and any person in lawful possession of any offstreet parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in such
facility owned or operated by the village or person for the exclusive use of
handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the distinguishing
license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3-113, such
other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled
persons, as certified by the village, whose motor vehicles display the permit
specified in Neb. RS 18-1739, and such other motor vehicles, as certified by
the municipality, which display such permit. Such designation shall be made by
posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or
space, including access aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118 and the
federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the Act, as the Act and the
rules and regulations existed on May 31, 2001.
(Neb. RS 18-1737)
§ 72.28 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk may take an application from a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her
parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for
by this subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor
vehicle while it is parked in such spaces or access aisles. For purposes of
this section, the handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.29, but not both. The Department of Motor Vehicles shall provide
applications and medical forms to the Clerk. The application form shall contain
information listing the legal uses of the permit and that the permit is not
transferable, is to be used by the party to whom issued or for the motor
vehicle for which it is issued, is not to be altered or reproduced, and is to
be used only when a handicapped or disabled person or a temporarily handicapped
or disabled person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in a
designated parking space or access aisle. The application form shall provide
space for the applicant to sign a statement that he or she is aware of his or
her rights, duties, and responsibilities with regard to the use and possession
of a handicapped or disabled parking permit and the penalties provided by law
for handicapped parking infractions. The application form shall also indicate
that those convicted of handicapped parking infractions shall be subject to
suspension of the permit for six months. A copy of the completed application
form shall be given to each applicant. Before a permit is issued, the
Department shall enter all information required in the manner prescribed by
Neb. RS 18-1739. The Clerk shall submit to the Department the name, address,
and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant to this
section.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit. Following the receipt of the
application and its processing, the Department of Motor Vehicles shall deliver
each individual renewed permit to the applicant in person or by first-class
United States mail, postage prepaid, as circumstances permit, except that
renewed permits shall not be issued sooner than ten days prior to the date of
expiration.
(Neb. RS 18-1738)
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.02)
§ 72.29 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Village
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the Village
Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.28, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.01)
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.02)
§ 72.30 PERMITS.
   (A)   Prohibited issuance; duplicate permits.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to division (C). At the expiration of
such suspension, a permit may be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in
this subchapter.
      (2)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original
permit is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in
the same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical
form need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of
the most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the
Village Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be
valid for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 18-1739)
   (B)   Period valid; renewal of temporary permits.
      (1)   Permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter issued prior to August 1, 2005, shall be valid
for a period ending on September 30 of the third year after the date of
issuance and shall expire on that date. Permanently issued permits issued on or
after August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a period ending on the last day of the
month of the applicant's birthday in the third year after issuance and shall
expire on that day.
      (2)   All permits authorized under this Article for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Neb. RS 18-1740)
   (C)   Nontransferable; violations; suspension.
      (1)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
      (2)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled
parking permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall
display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access
aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
      (3)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
      (4)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled
parking permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park
in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
      (5)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped
parking infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of
this chapter. In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than
$250 which may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all
handicapped parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are
returned to the court. At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended
permit may be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 18-1741)
§ 72.31 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an offstreet parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the village, if it provides
onstreet parking or owns, operates, or provides an offstreet parking facility,
may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any onstreet parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any offstreet parking facility, without properly displaying the proper
permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom, as the
case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the
vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle shall be
guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in §§ 70.06 through 70.08. The display on a
motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a
handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly constituted authority of
another state shall constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a
handicapped parking infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the
vehicle in violation of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or
person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie
responsible for such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties
and procedures described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned offstreet parking facility, the
village shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the village of a violation of this section prior to the
village issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.35 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of nonmoving traffic regulations contained
in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 72.36 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
individual may remove the vehicle, have such vehicle removed, or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle to a
position off the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165
CHAPTER 73: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of mini-bike prohibited
   
73.02   All terrain vehicle defined; utility-type vehicle defined
   
73.03   Golf carts, go carts, garden tractors, utility-type vehicles, and all-
terrain vehicles
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF MINI-BIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mini-bike upon any street
or highway within the corporate limits of the village or within any municipal
park. For purposes of this chapter, MINI-BIKE shall mean a two wheel motor
vehicle which has a total wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an
engine rated capacity of less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any
other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-
road use only.
(Ord. D-203, passed 6-11-2002) Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.02 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE DEFINED; UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE means any
motorized off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more non-highway tires; and
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers, or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE means any motorized
off-highway vehicle that:
      (1)   Is 74 inches in width or less;
      (2)   Is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in length;
      (3)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less;
      (4)   Travels on four or more non-highway tires, and
      (5)   Is not otherwise an all-terrain vehicle under this chapter.
(Ord. D-203, passed 6-11-2002; Am. Ord. D-321, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 73.03 GOLF CARTS, GO CARTS, GARDEN TRACTORS, UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES, AND ALL-
TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No golf cart, go cart, garden tractor, utility-type vehicle, or all-
terrain vehicle may be operated on any street or road in the village unless in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   All golf carts, go carts, garden tractors, utility-type vehicles, or
all-terrain vehicles operated under this section shall:
      (1)   Be operated only between the hours of sunrise and sunset;
      (2)   Be operated at a speed no greater than 25 miles per hour;
      (3)   Have an equipped and working headlight and taillight;
      (4)   Have an equipped bicycle safety flag triangular in shape and not
less than 30 square inches in size, which extends not less than five feet above
ground and is in a conspicuous day-glow color;
      (5)   Be operated by a person with a valid Class O operator’s license or
a farm permit under Neb. RS 60-4,126, as amended from time to time;
      (6)   Have liability insurance coverage for the operation of the golf
cart, go cart, garden tractor, utility-type vehicle, or all-terrain vehicle on
the public street or road, and the person operating such golf cart, go cart,
garden tractor, utility-type vehicle, or all-terrain vehicle shall carry proof
of such coverage or supply proof of such coverage within five days after
request from any peace officer.
   (C)   In the following circumstances, all golf carts, go carts, garden
tractors, utility-type vehicles, or all-terrain vehicles operated under this
section may be operated without complying with the requirements of divisions
(B) or (D) of this section:
      (1)   The temporary crossing of any street or road, provided the crossing
is made at an angle 90 from the direction of the street or road, the crossing
is at a place where no obstruction prevents a safe and quick crossing, the
operator to a complete stop before the crossing, the operator during the
crossing yields right-of-way to all traffic on the street or road, the crossing
is made at a clear, unimpeded intersection if it involves a divided street or
road, and the headlight and taillight ore equipped and working during the
crossing.
      (2)   The participation in a parade which has been authorized by the
State of Nebraska, or any department, board, commission, or political
subdivision of the State of Nebraska, including the village.
      (3)   The use of golf cart, go cart, garden tractor, utility-type
vehicle, or all-terrain vehicle to assist in the provision of safety or aid
during any public emergency, such as a flood, snow emergency, threatening fire,
or other sever weather event.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no golf cart, go
cart, garden tractor, utility-type vehicle, or all-terrain vehicle may be
operated on a controlled-access highway with more than two marked lanes of
traffic, as defined by Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-615, as amended from time to time,
or on any portion of Nebraska Highway 26 within the corporate limits of the
village unless for the sole purpose of crossing Nebraska Highway 26 at a clear,
unimpeded intersection.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the operation of a riding mower
on any street or road in the village if done while driving to and from property
the operator intends to mow.
(Ord. D-203, passed 6-11-2002; Am. Ord. D-321, passed 5-9-2017; Am. Ord. D356,
passed 7-6-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
         
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
         
93.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
         
94.   ANIMALS
         
95.   FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Library
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   General powers and duties
   
90.03   Grounds and building
   
90.04   Sale of and conveyance of real estate
   
90.05   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.06   Cost of use
   
90.07   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.08   Annual report
   
90.09   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.10   Donations
   
90.11   Improper book removal
   
90.12   Theft of borrowed items
Morrill Sand Pits
   
90.20   Prohibition of certain uses; exceptions
LIBRARY
§ 90.01 LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal library through the
Library Board.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
taxable value of all the taxable property within the municipality. The amount
collected from the levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
   (C)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the municipal library.
   (D)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the municipal library
shall be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other
funds of the municipality, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the Municipal
Treasurer upon vouchers signed by the President of the Library Board and
authenticated by the Secretary of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed
for any other purpose or in any other manner. The Board of Trustees may
establish a public library sinking fund for major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (E)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
§ 90.02 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board shall have the power to appoint a suitable librarian
and assistants, to fix their compensation, and to remove such appointees at
pleasure. It shall have the power to establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. It shall have the power to fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.03 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   (A) The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
   (B) The Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building for the
use of the library.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.04 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance of any
real estate owned by the Board or by the municipal library, which is not used
for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the Board
or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best and as otherwise
provided in Neb. RS 51-216.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.05 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board. The
President and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.06 LIBRARY; COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the municipal
library and reading room shall be forever free to the use of the inhabitants of
the municipality, subject always to such reasonable regulations as the Library
Board may adopt to render the library of the greatest use to such inhabitants.
The Library Board may exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any
person who willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations
established for the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B) The library shall make its basic services available without charge to
all residents of the municipality. The Library Board may fix and impose
reasonable fees, not to exceed the library's actual cost, for nonbasic
services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Basic services shall include, but not be limited to, free loan of
circulating print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general
reference and information services; and
      (2) Nonbasic services shall include, but not be limited to, use of:
      (a)   Photocopying equipment;
      (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
      (c)   Media equipment;
      (d)   Personal computers; and
      (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.07 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.08 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in June in each
year, make a report to the Board of Trustees of the condition of its trust on
June 1 of such year, showing all money received or expended; the number of
books and periodicals on hand; newspapers and current literature subscribed for
or donated to the reading room; the number of books and periodicals ordered by
purchase, gift, or otherwise obtained during the year, and the number lost or
missing; the number of and character of books loaned or issued, with such
statistics, information, and suggestions as it may deem of general interest, or
as the Board of Trustees may require, which report shall be verified by
affidavit of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.09 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney's fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney's
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the
municipality to the credit of the Library Fund. Attorney's fees collected
pursuant to this section shall be placed in the treasury of the municipality
and credited to the budget of the Municipal Attorney's office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.10 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the municipal library. The title to property so donated may be made
to and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
municipal library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.11 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book or any other material from the library,
without the consent of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library.
Any person removing a book or other material from the library without properly
checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
§ 90.12 THEFT OF BORROWED ITEMS.
   (A)   A person is guilty of theft if he borrows, checks out, or receives on
loan any book, magazine, periodical, video cassette tape recording, audio
cassette tape recording, camera, projector, cake pans, or any other property
owned by the Village of Morrill Library of any value for a specified period of
time and does fail to return the item borrowed or received item with the intent
to deprive the Village of Morrill Library of such property.
   (B)   It should be presumed that the failure to return borrowed items to the
Village of Morrill Library is done with the intent to deprive the Village of
Morrill Library of such property if the borrower or receiver shall fail to
return the item within ten days after written notice is mailed or delivered to
the borrower or receiver at his last known address with notification that the
item was not returned on the due date.
   (C)   Notice under this section shall demand that the item(s) be returned
within ten days after the notice is mailed or delivered.
(Ord. D-163, passed 10-5-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
MORRILL SAND PITS
§ 90.20 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN USES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The village owns real estate and property known as Morrill Sand Pits,
located south of the village, along with land adjoining the ponds. Fishing is
permitted in Morrill Sand Pits, subject to applicable regulations of the State
of Nebraska.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to swim, scuba dive in
or upon the body of water known as Morrill Sand Pits. In addition, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate any type of boat, propelled by any type of
motor while on the Morrill Sand Pits. Provided, any prohibition against boats
shall not apply to boats propelled by electric trolling motor. Provided
further, any prohibition in this division shall not apply to authorized law
enforcement personnel, firefighters, emergency safety personnel, or other
authorized personnel who are at Morrill Sand Pits to conduct emergency rescue
operations or cleanup operations, and who have applied for and been granted a
permit to conduct authorized emergency personnel training exercises or cleanup
operations in, on, or upon Morrill Sand Pits.
   (C)   An application for a permit to cause or permit authorized emergency
personnel to be in, on or upon Morrill Ponds, otherwise prohibited in this
section, may be made to the Village Clerk or another village employee
designated by the Village Clerk to perform this function, to permit authorized
emergency personnel to conduct training exercises in, on or upon Morrill Sand
Pits. The Village Clerk or other designated employee may issue a permit if he
or she finds:
      (1)    The times for the permitted training exercises will not have an
adverse impact on the wildlife or the flora and fauna in the area of the
proposed activity; or
      (2) That the proposed activity does not have an adverse impact on the
recreational use of Morrill Sand Pits; or
      (3)   That the authorized emergency personnel have completed an
application for the permit and have agreed to an indemnification and hold
harmless agreement with the village.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to consume or
have in his or her possession an open container of alcoholic liquor on the
public roads, parking areas or any other portion of the property known as the
Morrill Sand Pits, except as provided in this division; or to consume or have
in his or her possession any open container of alcoholic liquor inside a motor
vehicle unless the alcoholic liquor is located so that no occupant of the motor
vehicle shall have access to it while the vehicle is in motion. A container of
alcoholic liquor shall be considered an open container if the seal of the
original package or bottle is broken.
      (2)   OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS
53-123.04(3) or 53-123.11(1)(C), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
      (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
      (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
         2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to enter, be or remain
in or upon any part of the Morrill Sand Pits between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of any day. Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to any
duly authorized police officer, firefighter or municipal employee charged with
maintaining the Morrill Sand Pits for and on behalf of the village.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to:
      (1)   Drop, throw, place or discard any wastepaper, dirt, weeds, trash,
refuse, or other rubbish of any sort onto any area within the Morrill Sand
Pits, except in a designated receptacle; or
      (2)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause or permit to be placed
or discharged into any stream or body of water any substance, matter or thing
which might cause the water to be harmful to persons or things, to give forth
objectionable odors or to appear unsightly, or otherwise pollute the waters.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to start a fire at the
Morrill Sand Pits area except in receptacles and facilities provided by the
village for such a purpose, or in devices such as portable grills or camp
stoves which are manufactured for the purpose of containing fires.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, except authorized law
enforcement officers or safety personnel, in the performance of their duties
with the village, to discharge within the Morrill Sand Pits any firearm, pellet
gun or pistol, BB gun or other similar device, bow and arrow, crossbow or any
other device capable of projecting a missile able to inflict harm to persons or
animals, or to injure property. In addition, it shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to possess or discharge any fireworks on or within the
Morrill Sand Pits area.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate or park a
motor vehicle within the Morrill Sand Pits except on roadways, pathways, or
motor vehicle parking areas or other areas designated by the village for use by
motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate or
park a motor vehicle except a wheelchair, on designated areas, trails or
roadways within the area known as the Morrill Sand Pits. It shall be unlawful
for any person or persons to operate an all- terrain vehicle, whether the
vehicle has four or three wheels, within the Morrill Sand Pits area. For
purposes of this section, MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean any self-propelled vehicle
of whatever nature that is able to be registered for operation on streets,
highways and roadways of the State of Nebraska.
   (J)   The Board of Trustees may prepare such rules and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the management and care of the Morrill Sand Pits area to
insure the orderly use of the Morrill Sand Pits by the public and for the
protection thereof from other malicious mischief. Such rules and regulations
shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees in resolution form, with such
resolution being published in the manner provided for the publication of
ordinances and at least three copies thereof shall be kept on file at the
office of the Village Clerk for public inspection.
   (K)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined in any sum not more than $100 and shall pay the cost of
prosecution.
(Ord. D-256, passed 5-9-2006)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
91.03   Authority to impound
   
91.04   Disposition where owner unknown
   
91.05   Storage provisions
   
91.06   Storage of inoperable vehicles
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES. The following shall constitute an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
      (1)   Any vehicle that is left unattended upon any street, highway,
sidewalk or alley, where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   Any vehicle that is left unattended upon a street and so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic or proper street or highway maintenance;
      (3)   Any vehicle left unattended upon any street, highway, or public
property for a period of 72 hours or more;
      (4)   Any vehicle that has been left for a period of seven days or more
on private property located within the village, other than public rights-of-
way, without the express consent of the owner of such property and where the
owner of such private property has so notified the Village Police Department of
his desire to have said vehicle removed;
      (5)   Any vehicle failing to display number plates, when left more than
six hours on any public property, street, highway, sidewalk, or alley, or
failing to display number plates of the current year or the proper number plate
or plates assigned to such vehicle under the provisions of the revised statutes
of the State of Nebraska, as amended; or displaying number plates in such a
manner as to reasonably indicate a violation of any provision of the statutes
of the State of Nebraska or the ordinances of the village or any other
provision of state law with respect to motor vehicle number plates while parked
attended or unattended or traveling upon the streets, highways, or alleys of
the village;
      (6)   Any vehicle that has been left for a period of seven days or more
on a public right-of-way, street, highway, sidewalk or alley with one or more
tires or wheels removed, propped up on jacks, blocks or other support, or
having one or more tires with insufficient air to allow the vehicle to be
operated.
   PROPERTY. Any real property located within the village or any village
property within or without the corporate limits.
   STREET, HIGHWAY, SIDEWALK or ALLEY. The entire distance between the boundary
lines of every public way.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designated to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, airplanes, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, motor
scooters, tractors, recreational vehicles, and in addition thereto, shall
include such nonpowered vehicles such as boat trailers and camper trailers or
any part or portion thereof.
(Ord. D-175, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 91.02 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village, and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the village for such time and under
such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
   (B)   No person who is the owner of any vehicle shall permit such vehicle to
be abandoned within the village nor permit such vehicle to be left at any place
within the village for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such
vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Ord. D-175, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 91.03 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   The Village Police of the city are authorized to remove or to have removed a
vehicle to the nearest place of safety or to a garage designated or maintained
by the Police Department of the village or by the village, under the
circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
   (A)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, causeway or
viaduct or in any subway or underpass, where such vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic within the village;
   (B)   When a vehicle upon a public street or highway is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction to traffic or the person or persons in charge of the
vehicle are by reason of physical injury or otherwise incapacitated to such
extent as to be unable to provide for its custody and removal;
   (C)   When a vehicle is found being driven upon the streets or highways of
the village, and is in such a defective condition as to constitute an immediate
hazard to the safety of its occupants and other persons, pedestrians or motor
vehicles being lawfully operated on the streets;
   (D)   When a vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement
of traffic or proper street or highway maintenance.
(Ord. D-175, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 91.04 DISPOSITION WHERE OWNER UNKNOWN.
   When the owner or person in custody of the vehicle cannot be located by
reasonable search, the notice specified above shall be attached to the vehicle
or junk by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees. If any such vehicle is not
removed with ten days from the attachment of such notice, such vehicle is
declared to be abandoned property and the Chairperson and Board of Trustees or
their duly authorized representatives shall remove or cause such vehicle to be
removed to a suitable city storage area designated by the Chairperson and Board
of Trustees. The vehicle, if it cannot be disposed of, pursuant to the
provisions of Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903, shall be stored for a period of not
less than 60 days and the owner thereof shall be entitled to redeem the same by
payment to the village of the actual costs of its removal and reasonable
storage charges. If in the event that such vehicle is unclaimed at the end of
60 days, the Chairperson and Board of Trustees or their duly authorized
representatives may dispose of it in accordance with the provisions of Neb. RS
Ch. 60, Art. 19.
(Ord. D-175, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 91.05 STORAGE PROVISIONS.
   Whenever an officer removes or impounds or stores a vehicle as authorized by
this chapter, such vehicle will be stored or disposed of and in accordance with
the provisions of the Neb. RS 60-1903 and 60-1911, as amended, or pursuant to
provisions of the ordinances of the village.
(Ord. D-175, passed 8-10-1999)
§ 91.06 STORAGE OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for the owner or
occupant of any property to store or permit to be stored on such property any
junk or inoperable motor vehicle or one failing to display current number
plates for a period exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any vehicle within the application of division (A) of this section
shall constitute an abandoned vehicle within the application of this chapter.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, this chapter shall
not apply to any vehicle within an enclosed junk yard in an industrial zoning
district conforming to the requirements of the municipal zoning ordinance.
(Ord. D-175, passed 8-10-1999)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Health regulations
   
92.02   Enforcement official
   
92.03   County Health Board
Nuisances
   
92.20   Definition
   
92.21   Abatement procedure
   
92.22   Jurisdiction
   
92.23   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
92.24   Dead or diseased trees
   
92.25   Weeds
Noise Restrictions
   
92.35   Existence of problem; necessity for regulation
   
92.36   Definitions
   
92.37   Permits
   
92.38   Prohibitions
   
92.39   Emergencies
   
92.40   Public events
   
92.41   Community noise levels
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief, as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health
officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of
Trustees and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the municipality
and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 92.03 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
NUISANCES
§ 92.20 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)    Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house-yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory- yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste, vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity, provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a- brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards, or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained and kept in
such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Penalty for maintenance of a nuisance, see Neb. RS 28-1321
§ 92.21 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of real estate in the
municipality to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination by the Board of Health that the owner or occupant has failed to
keep such real estate free of public nuisances, notice to abate and remove such
nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees, and
the manner in which it may be requested, shall be given to the owner or
occupant, or the owner’s or occupant’s duly authorized agent, by personal
service or certified mail. If after reasonable efforts of notice by personal
service or certified mail have been made, the responsible person or entity
cannot be located for service, then service may be mailed such notice to the
address to which property tax statements are mailed by the county, and by
conspicuously posting such notice on the real estate. Such notice shall
describe the condition as found by the Board of Health, state that the
condition has been declared a public nuisance, and that the condition must be
remedied at once. Within ten days after the receipt of such notice or after
posting such notice on the real estate, as the case may be, if the owner or
occupant of the real estate does not request a hearing or fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality shall have such
work done, and may levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the
real estate so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the Board
of Trustees, the Board of Trustees shall fix a time and place at which a
hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service
or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before the Board
of Trustees to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied. Such notice shall be given no less than seven and no
more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the
hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Board of Trustees shall hear all
objections made by the owner or occupant, and shall hear evidence submitted by
the Board of Health. If after consideration of all the evidence, the Board of
Trustees finds that the condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the public
nuisance at once. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly
comply with the order of the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees shall
proceed to cause the abatement of the described public nuisance, and may levy
and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real estate so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied and assessed.
(Am. Ord. D-309, passed 5-5-2015)
Cross reference:
   Authority to obtain injunction against nuisance, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Authority to remove garbage from land, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 92.22 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson and the Police Chief are directed to enforce this municipal
code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Chairperson, Police Chief,
and court shall extend to and the territorial application of this chapter shall
include all territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one
mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
Statutory reference:
   Zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, the Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.23 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Board of Trustees condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
§ 92.24 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of village that may constitute a health hazard to other
property or vegetation. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
section, the Village Police Department shall have the authority to enter upon
private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner by the Village Chief of Police or his or her designee as provided for in
§
93.056 of the Village Code of Ordinances. In addition, violation of the section
may be considered an offense under §
10.99 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
(Am. Ord. D-337, passed 8-7-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Overhanging branches prohibited, see §
93.006
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate dead and diseased trees, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
§ 92.25 WEEDS.
   (A)   Unlawful to allow weeds on premises, streets or alleys. Hereafter it
shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot, lots or parcels of
ground within the corporate limits of this village to permit the weeds or grass
growing thereon or in the streets or alleys or on the sidewalks abutting or
contiguous to such lots or parcels of land to hinder or obstruct travel along
the sidewalks or permit a growth of weeds or grass that are unsightly or become
dangerous in causing fires or from which weed seed of rank and noxious weeds
may be propagated and scattered to lots or parcels of ground adjacent thereto.
   (B)   Notice to remove. Whenever the weeds or grass growing on such lot,
lots or parcels of land, or in streets or alleys, or along the sidewalk
abutting or contiguous thereto, shall become a hindrance to travel, or shall,
in the opinion of such village employee as is designated by the Board of
Trustees, be unsightly or become dangerous in causing or spreading fire or may
propagate and scatter seeds of rank and noxious weeds to adjacent lots or
parcels of ground, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to notify by
personal service or by publication the owner of such lots or parcels of land to
cut down or remove such weeds and grass and if said weeds and grass are not cut
down and removed within ten days, such village employee as is designated by the
Board of Trustees shall cause the same to be done at the expense of village.
The money thus expended shall be recovered by the village from the owner or
occupant aforesaid before any court of competent jurisdiction or shall be
assessed as a special tax or assessment.
   (C)   List of unpaid assessments. In November of each year, the Village
Clerk shall publish a list of unpaid assessments for mowing of weeds, giving
owners of said lots and parcels notice that if said assessments are not paid by
the following December l, the same will be certified to the County Clerk for
entry on the tax rolls.
   (D)   Entry on tax rolls. On December 1 of each year, the Village Clerk,
having given notice as aforesaid, will certify all unpaid assessments for
mowing of weeds to the County Clerk directing the same to be entered on the tax
rolls as a special assessment.
(1979 Code, Ch. 20)
NOISE RESTRICTIONS
§ 92.35 EXISTENCE OF PROBLEM; NECESSITY FOR REGULATION.
   (A)   Existence of problem. Excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noises
within the limits of the village is a condition which has existed for some
time, and the extent and magnitude of such noises are increasing; and the
making, creation or maintenance of such excessive, unnecessary or unusually
loud noises which are prolonged, unusual or unreasonable in their time, place
and use affects and is a detriment to public health, comfort, convenience,
safety and welfare of the residents of the village, or may cause damage to
property or business.
   (B)   Necessity for regulation. The necessity in the public interest for the
provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted is declared as a
matter of legislative determination and public policy and the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in pursuance of and for the
purpose of securing and promoting the public health, comfort, convenience,
safety, welfare, and the peace and quiet of the inhabitants of the village.
(Ord. D-166, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 92.36 DEFINITIONS.
   All terminology used in this chapter shall be consistent with applicable
American National Standards Institute Publications, such as S1.1 1960 ® 1971 or
S1.13 1971 or those from its successor publications or bodies. For the purpose
of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The sound pressure level meter using the A-
weighted network. The standard notation is dB (A).
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The sound pressure level of all encompassing noise
associated with a given environment, being usually a composite of sounds from
many sources. It is also the sound pressure level exceeded 90% of the time
based on a one-hour sample.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT. This term means the following:
      (1)   An area where offices, clinics and the facilities needed to serve
them are located;
      (2)   An area with local shopping and service establishments;
      (3)   A tourist-oriented area where hotels, motels, and gasoline stations
are located;
      (4)   A business strip along a main street containing offices, retail
businesses, or commercial enterprises;
      (5)   Other commercial enterprises and activities which do not involve
the manufacturing, processing or fabrication of any commodity. COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT shall include, but not limited to any parcel of land zoned as
commercial or highway commercial as provided by the zoning ordinance of the
village.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES. Any and all activity incidental to the erection,
demolition, assembling, altering, installing or equipping of buildings,
structures, roads or appurtenances thereof, including land clearing, grading,
excavating and filling.
   CONTINUOUS NOISE. Steady or fluctuating noise which exists essentially
without interruption during the period of observation. For the purposes of this
chapter, that period shall be one hour.
   CYCLICALLY VARYING NOISE. Steady or fluctuating noise which varies in
amplitude so that the same sound pressure level is obtained repetitively at
uniform intervals of time. A beat is one class of this noise.
   DECIBEL. A logarithmic unit of measure often used in measuring magnitudes of
sound. The symbol is dB.
   DEVISE. Any mechanism which is intended to produce or which actually
produces audible sound when operated or handled.
   EFFECTIVE SOUND PRESSURE. The instantaneous root mean square-sounds pressure
(averaged over a time interval) which varies with the meter characteristic
setting on a sound level meter.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle used in response to a public calamity or
to protect persons or property from an imminent exposure to danger.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or property
from imminent exposure to danger.
   FLUCTUATING NOISE. The sound pressure level of a noise varies more than six
dB (A) during the period of observation when measured with the slow meter
characteristic of a sound level meter and does not equal the previously
existing ambient noise level more than once during the period of observation.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. An area in which enterprise and activities which
involve the manufacturing, processing or fabrication of any commodity are
located. INDUSTRIAL shall include, but not limited to, any parcel of land zoned
as industrial under the zoning ordinance of the village.
   IMPULSIVE NOISE. Noise contained excursions, usually less than one second,
of sound pressure level 20 dB (A) over the ambient noise level using the fast
meter characteristic.
   INTERMITTENT NOISE. Noise whose sound pressure level equals or is less than
the ambient noise level two or more times during the period of observation and
is greater than the ambient during the remainder of the period.
   LEVEL, TENTH PERCENTILE. The A-weighted sound pressure that is exceeded 10%
of the time or the level that is exceeded six minutes in one hour.
   LEVEL, NINETIETH PERCENTILE. The A-weighted sound pressure level that is
exceeded 90% of the time or the level that is exceeded for 54 minutes in one
hour.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle such as, but not limited to, passenger cars,
trucks, and truck-trailers, semi-trailers, campers, motorcycles, minibikes, go-
carts, snowmobiles, motorboats, racing vehicles, which are propelled by
mechanical power.
   NOISE. Any sound which is unwanted or which causes or tends to cause an
adverse psychological or physiological effect on human beings.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which annoys, disturbs, or perturbs reasonable
persons with normal sensitivities or which injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, hearing, peace or safety of other persons.
   PERSON. Any human being, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, contractor, supplier, installer, user,
owner, or operator and shall include any municipal corporation or its officers
or employees.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE NOISE. Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously transferred to the listener, such as, but not limited to,
understanding of spoken speech, comprehension or whether a voice is raised or
normal, or comprehension of musical rhythms.
   PROPERTY BOUNDARY. An imaginary line at the ground surface which separates
the real property owned by one person from that owned by another person and its
vertical extension.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, alley, premises
or public conveyance which is owned or controlled by a public governmental
entity.
   PURE TONE. Any noise which can be distinctively heard as a single pitch or
set of single pitches.
   REPETITIVE IMPULSIVE NOISE. Any noise which is composed of impulsive noises
that are repeated at sufficiently slow rates such that a sound level meter set
at "fast" meter characteristic will show changes in sound pressure level
greater than 10 dB(A).
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. An area of single or multifamily dwellings and shall
include areas where multiple-unit dwellings, high-rise apartments and high-
density residential districts are located. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT shall also
include, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes, homes for the aged,
schools, courts and similar institutional facilities. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
shall include,  but not be limited to land zoned as rural, residential, or
mobile home of the zoning ordinance of the village.
   SOUND. Temporal and spatial oscillation in pressure, stress, or other
physical quantity in a medium with internal forces that cause a compression of
that medium and which compression propagates to distant points.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument, including a microphone, amplifier, output
meter and weighing networks for the measurement of sound pressure. The output
meter reads sound pressure level when properly calibrated and the instrument is
a Type 2 or better as specified in American National Standards Institution
Publication S1.4-1971.
   SOUND PRESSURE. The instantaneous difference between the actual pressure and
the average or barometric pressure at a given point in space.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio
of the root mean square pressure of a sound to the reference pressure, which is
20 X 10/6 newtons per meter squared. It is expressed in decibels (dB).
   STATIONARY NOISE SOURCE. Any equipment or facility fixed or movable, capable
of emitting sound beyond the property boundary of the property on which it is
used.
   STEADY NOISE. The sound pressure level of a steady noise remains essentially
constant during the period of observation; it does not vary more that 6 dB (A)
when measured with the "slow" meter characteristic of a sound level meter.
(Ord. D-166, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 92.37 PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for a permit for relief from the provisions of this
subchapter may be made to the Village Clerk or his or her authorized
representative for noise which, if prohibited, would cause undue hardship to
the person responsible for the noise.
   (B)   In granting relief, consideration shall be made of the time of day,
duration, loudness relative to the required limits, the extensiveness, and the
continuous or intermittent nature of the noise, and technical and economic
feasibility or bringing the noise into conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   Any permit granted hereunder may establish, without limitation, the
effective dates, times of day, location, sound pressure level or equipment
limitations relating to the particular circumstances giving rise to the permit.
(Ord. D-166, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 92.38 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any person to make,
continue, or cause to be made or continued any excessive or unusually loud
noise, or to create a noise disturbance within the limits of the village.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. The following acts, among others, are declared
to be in violation of this chapter and unlawful, but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Alarms and bells. Sounding, operating, or permitting the sounding
or operation for more than five minutes, or between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., of any electronically amplified signal from any bell or chime from
any clock, school, church, or governmental building.
      (2)   Fireworks or explosives. The using of explosives, which create
impulsive noise between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or in such manner
as to cause a noise disturbance, is prohibited. The using of fireworks shall be
permitted from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. during the ten days proceeding the 4th
of July and from 7:00 a.m. to midnight on the 4th of July each year. The use of
fireworks shall not be permitted at any other time.
      (3)   Horns and signaling devices.
         (a)   Sounding of any horn or signaling device on any truck,
automobile, motorcycles, emergency vehicle or other vehicle on any street or
public place of the village except as a danger warning signal.
         (b)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sounding
of horns in the customary practices of celebrating weddings or in celebrating
the victory of a sports event, such as a football game, so long as such
sounding of horns is within two hours or the completion of any such event.
      (4)   Loading operations. Loading, unloading, opening, or otherwise
handling boxes, crates, containers, garbage containers, or other objects in
such a manner as to create a noise disturbance.
      (5)   Loudspeakers, exterior.
         (a)   Using or operating a loudspeaker or sound amplifying equipment
in a fixed or movable position or mounted upon any motor vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, public or private property without first
obtaining a permit.
         (b)   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to emergency
vehicles when such emergency vehicles are responding to an emergency call or
when in pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the law, or when responding
to but not returning from a fire alarm.
         (c)   The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any bell or
chime or any device for the production of the sound of bells or chimes from any
church, clock, or school so long as such sounds comply with subsections (a) and
(b) of this division.
      (6)   Peddlers and hawkers. Selling anything by outcry within any area of
the village zoned primarily for residential uses. The provisions of this
subsection shall not be construed as prohibiting the selling by outcry of
merchandise, food, and beverages at licensed sporting events, parades, fairs,
circuses, and other similar licensed public entertainment events.
      (7)   Radios, television sets, and similar devices.
         (a)   Using, operating, or permitting the use or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, television, phonograph, drum, or other
machine or device for the production or reproduction of sound, except as
provided for in subsection (5), in such manner as to cause noise disturbance or
operating any such device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and the following 7:
00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the property boundary of
the source, or plainly audible through walls common to two parties within a
building.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, it is
permissible for any senior high school or junior high school band to perform or
practice prior to the hour of 7:00 a.m.
      (8)   Recreational activities, nonvehicular. The flying of model aircraft
powered by internal combustion engines, whether tethered or not; or the firing
or operation of model rockets or other similar noise-producing devices between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance.
      (9)   Vehicles, repairs or testing. Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or
testing any truck, automobile, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle in such a
manner as to cause a noise disturbance or violate the provisions of division
(10).
      (10)   Vehicles, standing. Operating, or permitting the operation of any
motor vehicle in excess of 10,000 pounds, manufactures gross weight, or any
attached auxiliary equipment, for a consecutive period longer than ten minutes
while such a vehicle is standing on a public right-of-way in a residential
district or is on private property in a residential district or is on private
property in a residential zone and is not within a completely enclosed
structure.
(Ord. D-166, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 92.39 EMERGENCIES.
   Noise caused in the performance of emergency work for the immediate safety,
health, or welfare of the community or individuals of the community or to
restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity shall not be
subject to the provisions of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to permit law enforcement, ambulance, fire or other emergency
personnel to make excessive noises in the performance of their duties when such
noise is clearly unnecessary.
(Ord. D-166, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 92.40 PUBLIC EVENTS.
   (A)   Applications for a permit to hold a public event which may violate the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Village Clerk or his or her
duly authorized representative. The permit shall be valid only at the specific
times, dates, and conditions noted in the permit.
   (B)   A permit shall be deemed granted in the case of a parade and no
further application will be necessary.
(Ord. D-166, passed 12-8-1998)
§ 92.41 COMMUNITY NOISE LEVELS.
   (A)   Maximum permissible continuous sound pressure levels.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any reason to operate or cause or permit
to be operated any stationary source of noise which creates a sound pressure
level that exceeds the limits set forth in the following table for more than
90% of any measurement period. This measurement shall not be less than ten
minutes when measured at the property boundary or at any point within the
property affected by the noise.
 
Use District Day                     Night
             7:00 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. 9:00 p.m. – 7:00 a.m.
Residential  55                      50
Commercial   60                      55
Industrial   70                      65
 
      (2)   Noise levels for any PUD shall conform with this table and shall be
determined by the predominant land use as set forth in the PUD plan.
   (B)   District boundaries. When a noise source can be identified and its
noise is measured in more than one use district, the sound pressure level
limits of the most restrictive use district shall apply at that district
boundary.
   (C)   Duration correction. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
permit to be operated any stationary source of noise within any land use
category which creates a fluctuating noise or is intermittent and creates a
tenth percentile noise level which is more than 15 dB (A) greater than the
ambient noise level, measured when the source is quiet, but in no case shall
the tenth percentile level exceed 70 dB (A) in residential land use categories.
   (D)   Correction for character of sound. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate or cause or permit to be operated any stationary source of noise
which emits a pure tone, cyclically varying noise or repetitively impulsive
noise which exceeds 5 dB (A) less than the limits set in this section.
   (E)   Exemption for school bands. The performance of any senior high school
or junior high school band shall be exempt from the sound pressure level
standards of this chapter.
(Ord. D-166, passed 12-8-1998)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Municipal Property
   
93.001   Definition
   
93.002   Maintenance and control
   
93.003   Obstructions
   
93.004   Weeds
   
93.005   Signs and canopies
   
93.006   Overhanging branches
   
93.007   Sale and conveyance of real property
   
93.008   Sale and conveyance of personal property
   
93.009   Acquisition of property; construction; elections, when required
   
93.010   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
93.011   Acquisition of real property; public meeting
   
93.012   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
93.013   Tax notice; levy
   
93.014   Entering parks prohibited; when
   
93.015   Bounce houses prohibited
Sidewalks
   
93.020   Requirement to keep clean
   
93.021   Repair
   
93.022   Use of space beneath
   
93.023   Dangerous stairway
   
93.024   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
93.025   Construction at municipal direction
   
93.026   Construction not in accord with regulations
   
93.027   Estimates of cost of work where done by village
   
93.028   Width of sidewalk, distance from lot line
   
93.029   Awnings in sidewalks
   
93.030   Curbs
   
93.031   Riding or driving on public sidewalks
Streets
   
93.040   Grading, paving and other improvements
   
93.041   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
93.042   Streets and alleys; opening, widening, improving, or vacating
   
93.043   Crossings
   
93.044   Names and numbers
   
93.045   Cutting into paving, curb, or sidewalk
   
93.046   Driveway approaches
   
93.047   Excavation
   
93.048   Driving stakes
   
93.049   Mixing concrete
   
93.050   Harmful liquids and materials
   
93.051   Eave and gutter spouts
   
93.052   Heavy equipment; special tires
   
93.053   Pipe lines and wires
   
93.054   Snow, debris, and the like on street prohibited
   
93.055   Mailboxes
   
93.056   Trees and shrubs
Cross-reference:
   Street games, see §
131.02
   Obstruction of public ways, see §
131.03
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 93.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 93.002 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the municipality and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and
free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 93.003 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Trees, plants, or shrubs growing upon or near the lot line of any
property and interfering with the use or construction of any public
improvements, roads, streets, alleys, or rights of way shall be deemed an
obstruction under this section. Such obstructions and their roots may be
removed by the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which
the obstruction is located, should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to
do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
obstruct, or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise,
any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks. The public ways and property shall be
considered to be obstructed when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property
shall permit or suffer to remain on any premise owned or controlled by him or
her any trees, plants, shrubs, or vegetation, or similar growth within two feet
adjacent to the lot line whether there is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining such
premise or not. It shall be the duty of owners and occupants to at all times
keep trimmed and pruned all such similar growth.
   (B)   If the obstruction is vegetation not concerning encroachment upon
utilities, notice to abate and remove such obstruction and notice of the right
to a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or occupant by the Chief of Police or his or her designee as provided for
in §
93.056 of the Village Code of Ordinances. In addition, violation of the section
may be considered an offense under §
10.99 of the Village Code of Ordinances. If the obstruction is non-vegetation,
enforcement may be provided for by the Village Chief of Police or his or her
designee or the action of the Village Board of Trustees. For the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this section, the Village Police Department
shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the
obstructions thereon.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant engaged in construction
of any building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property to
have all excavations or exposures of any kind protected and guarded by suitable
guards or barricades by day and by warning lights at night. In the event of
failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the provisions of this subchapter,
it shall be the duty of the village to stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable guards are erected and kept in the manner
aforesaid.
   (D)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking, or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with such
building material and equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall
make application to and receive a permit in writing from such village employee
as is designated by the Village Board of Trustees to do so, provided that no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space and more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building
is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be
granted, and provided further that a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall
be maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall be
protected and lighted in the manner required by such village employee as is
designated by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Am. Ord. D-337, passed 8-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to remove obstructions, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to regulate and abate obstructions, see Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-
557.01
§ 93.004 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of such village employee as is designated by the Board
of Trustees or his or her duly authorized agent to view and inspect the
sidewalk space within the corporate limits for growing weeds during the growing
season, and if rank and noxious weeds are found growing thereon, he or she
shall notify the owner or occupant thereof to cut down such weeds as close to
the ground as can be practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like
manner during the growing season for weeds, provided that any weeds growing in
excess of 12 inches on any sidewalk space shall be considered a violation of
this section. In the event that the owner of the lot or parcel of land abutting
the sidewalk space within the municipality is a nonresident of the municipality
or cannot be found therein, the notice may be given to any person having the
care, custody, or control of such lot or parcel of land. In the event that
there can be found no one within the municipality to whom notice can be given,
it shall be the duty of such village employee as is designated by the Board of
Trustees or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premise and
then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report
the cost thereof in writing to the Board of Trustees. The cost shall then be
audited and paid by the municipality and the amount thereof shall be assessed
against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall be
collected as are other taxes of the municipality or may be recovered by civil
suit brought by the municipality against the owner of the parcel of land. In
the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross reference:
   Weeds, litter, stagnant water, see §
133.05
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 93.005 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster, or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley, or on
other public property without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits
for signs, canopies, posters, and signboards shall be issued by the Village
Clerk, upon payment of a fee set by the Board of Trustees by resolution. All
signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other
public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no
danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from other
causes. No sign or canopy shall be erected or maintained which extends over any
public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in such a location as to
obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal. Upon the written order
of the Board of Trustees, any person owning or occupying the premise where such
a sign, canopy, poster, or signboard is located shall cause the same to be
removed within the time limit specified on such notice.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.006 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk of the village over which there extends the
branches of trees, plants, or shrubs shall at all times keep the branches or
limbs thereof trimmed to the height of at least eight feet above the surface of
the walk and at least 14 feet above the surface of the street or alley.
Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public
using the street or sidewalk, the village may enforce this section with notice
and right to a hearing in the manner provided for in §
93.056 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
(Am. Ord. D-337, passed 8-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-557.01
§ 93.007 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
village to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of such property and the manner and terms
thereof, except that such property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in
a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the village
equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the
last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the Board of
Trustees, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be
sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but
the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with
the aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
Board of Trustees shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer's printed name,
street and number or voting precinct, and village or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number or voting precinct, and village or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the Board of Trustees finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance, and the qualifications of the signer,
shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the State of Nebraska for state armory sites
or, if acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (F)   Following (1) passage of the resolution directing a sale, (2)
publishing of the notice of the proposed sale, and (3) passing of the 30-day
right-of-remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall
be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village for a period
of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall
give a general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms
and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may
be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 93.008 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the village to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the village for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published
in or of general circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the
sale of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the
property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) of this section when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 93.009 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS, WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes and
other public buildings and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954 and be
adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and no election
shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days
after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in number
to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in subdivision (C)(1) of this subsection if the
property can be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an
appraisal, there is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than
$25,000. The purchase shall be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice
and public hearing as provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
§ 93.010 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 93.011 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING.
   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 93.012 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the municipality
shall not engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture
or engineering unless the plans, specifications, and estimates have been
prepared and the construction has been observed by an architect, a professional
engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of an architect,
professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of an architect or
professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $80,000;
(Neb. RS 81-3445, 81-3449(3), and 81-3453(3))
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
(Neb. RS 81-3449(4) and 81-3453(4))
      (3)   Performance of professional services for itself if the municipality
appoints a municipal engineer or employs a full-time person licensed under the
Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is in responsible charge of
architectural or engineering work;
(Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3449(9), and 81-3453(6))
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
(Neb. RS 81-3449(11) and 81-3453(7))
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
(Neb. RS 81-3449(13) and 81-3453(12))
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance;
(Neb. RS 81-3449(14) and 81-3453(13))
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
(Neb. RS 81-3453(10))
      (8)   The construction of municipal water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-
1212, the installation of pumps and pumping equipment into municipal water
wells, and the decommissioning of municipal water wells, unless such
construction, installation, or decommissioning is required by the municipality
to be designed or supervised by an engineer or unless legal requirements are
imposed upon the municipality as a part of a public water supply; and
(Neb. RS 81-3453(15))
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 to 81-3453.
Statutory reference:
   Public service provider defined, see Neb. RS 81-3423
§ 93.013 TAX NOTICE; LEVY.
   (A)   Tax notice. All special assessments and taxes that may be levied for
the purpose of constructing sidewalks, culverts, bridges or for the grading or
draining of streets or draining of vacant lots shall be made and assessed in
the following manner. The Village Clerk shall give four weeks notice in some
newspaper circulated in this village of the holding of a special meeting for
the purpose of levying such special tax, or in lieu of such published notice,
the Clerk may deliver to the Police Chief a written notice directed to the
owner, owners, or their agents or occupants of the property to be charged with
such special tax, which notice the Police Chief shall personally serve upon the
person or persons to whom directed, or in case of absence of such owner or
owners, post the same upon the premises of the owner or owners, or the premises
so sought to be taxed. Such notice shall state the time and object of the
special meeting. (1979 Code, Ch. 17, § 3)
   (B)   Levy, collecting. All such assessments shall be known as “special
assessments for improvements” and shall be levied and collected as a special
tax, in addition to the taxes for general revenue purposes collected as the
general tax of the village, which is provided by the statutes of the state.
(1979 Code, Ch. 17, § 4)
§ 93.014 ENTERING PARKS PROHIBITED; WHEN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to enter, be, or remain
in or upon all parks or publically accessible property of the village during
the following hours and times:
      (1)   March 1 through September 30: 10:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   October 1 through the last day of February: 6:00 p.m. through 6:00
a.m.
   (B)   It shall not be unlawful under division (A) of this section for
persons to use or access all parks or publically accessible property of the
village for the following reasons during the prohibited hours:
      (1)   To attend a special event authorized by the village during the
hours of such event, such as, but not limited to, sporting events or events
related to village-designated celebrations;
      (2)   Duly authorized occupants or users of village-designated camping
areas in such parks or properties; and
      (3)   Police, firefighters, park attendants or personnel of the village,
or other public law enforcement officers, while such officers or personnel are
engaged in the performance of their official duties.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall make village-owned property accessible
to the public if such property is not designated by the village as accessible
to the public. The village reserves the right to prohibit public access to any
and all village-owned properties, as may be allowed by law.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall be considered an offense punishable
and enforceable under §
10.99.
(Ord. D-327, passed 8-24-2017)
§ 93.015 BOUNCE HOUSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The construction, use or placement of a bounce house on property
within a public park or village-owned property open to the public is prohibited
at all times, unless upon special written permission of the Board of Trustees.
As used in this section, the term BOUNCE HOUSE shall mean any temporarily
inflatable structure, trampoline, house, moon bounce or similar apparatus that
is used for recreational purposes, particularly for children to jump within.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to construct, use or place a bounce
house in violation of this section. Any violation of this section shall be
deemed and offense, and any conviction thereof shall be punishable by fine up
to $500. Whenever a violation exists, the village may proceed by suit to abate
the violation, and a court may enter an order abating the violation as well as
imposing a fine up to $500.
(Ord. D-318, passed 10-11-2016)
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.020 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice, or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All
sidewalks within the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after
the cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken
place during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00
a.m. the following day, provided that sidewalks within the residential areas of
the municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the
storm.
   (B)   Notice to remove such substance shall be made upon the owner, agent or
occupant of the premises, the notice to demand the removal of the substance
forthwith. If the person owning such premises be unknown or cannot be found or
any reasonable service cannot be made upon any such owner, agent or occupant
within this village, then and in that case such service of the notice shall be
made by posting a typewritten copy thereof in some conspicuous place on the
premises.
(1979 Code, Ch. 19, § 2)
   (C)   In case the owner, agent or occupant of any lot, lots or parcels of
land shall fail to remove the ice, snow, mud or other substance after due
notice shall have been given, then and in that case, it shall be the duty of
the Police Chief to remove such substance, and the expense thereof shall be
charged against the property as a special assessment for improvements.
(1979 Code, Ch. 19, § 3)
   (D)   In addition to the owner or occupant of any lot, lots or parcels of
land being liable for the immediate removal of such snow, ice, mud or other
substance from the walks or paths abutting their property, he or they may be
charged, upon complaint of the Police Chief, with committing a misdemeanor and
may be liable as determined by §
10.99.
(1979 Code, Ch. 19, § 4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross reference:
   Cutting into sidewalk, see §
93.045
   Eave and gutter spout, see §
93.051
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.021 REPAIR.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks, or cause the
construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner the Board of Trustees deems
necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in front of which such
construction and repairs are made, after having given notice:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Notify the owner of the property of the passage of the resolution;
      (2)   Contain the official estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the owner that he or she may, within ten days after the date
of publication of the notice, notify the village that he or she will repair the
sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication;
      (4)   Notify the owner that if he or she fails to so notify the village
or, having so notified the village, fails to repair the sidewalk within the 30
days, the village will cause the sidewalk to be repaired and the cost thereof
will be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premise;
   (C)   If the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the village shall, before levying any special assessment against
that property, send a copy of any notice, which is required by law to be
published, by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524. No special assessment in excess of the
estimate contained in the notice shall be assessed against the property.
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing provisions, Neb. RS 17-522 through 17-524
§ 93.022 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the Board of Trustees. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for the permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the Village Engineer. Should such plans or
specifications be disapproved by the Engineer, no permit shall be granted
therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a
sidewalk over such space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages
that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of the
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent
to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the Board of
Trustees may require the applicant to furnish a bond to the municipality as
obligee for the benefit of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or
damages by reason of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the Board of
Trustees, in its discretion, may designate.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.023 DANGEROUS STAIRWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way, or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement, or street, and any such entrance is declared to be a
public nuisance, provided that all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways, or open entrances thereto in sidewalks, pavements, or streets
may be permitted to remain from and after the passage, approval, and
publication of this code if the person owning or using the opening in the
sidewalk or street shall satisfy such village employee as is designated by the
Board of Trustees that the same is properly protected by a balustrade or coping
of durable material and shall furnish the municipality with a bond in such
amount as the Board of Trustees may set for the benefit of any person who might
suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use of the stairway, cellarway, or
open basement way.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.024 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The village employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees
shall issue the desired permit unless good cause shall appear why the permit
should be denied, provided that if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at
any other than the regularly prescribed location, grade, or elevation, such
village employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees shall submit the
application to the Board of Trustees who shall determine whether the permit
should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct
or cause to be constructed the sidewalk at any other location, grade, or
elevation than so designated by the municipality. All sidewalks shall be built
and constructed on the established grade or elevation, and if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by such village
employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.025 CONSTRUCTION AT MUNICIPAL DIRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
Board of Trustees' intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the
Village Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Village Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
   (C)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering the owner to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication, and further that if the
owner fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed, and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises, provided that the notice shall contain the official estimate of the
cost of construction, and no special assessment in excess of this estimate
shall be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct or otherwise improve through sidewalk district, see
Neb. RS 19-2417 through 19-2419
   Authority to construct and repair, see Neb. RS 17-509 et seq., 17-522
through 17-524
§ 93.026 CONSTRUCTION NOT IN ACCORD WITH REGULATIONS.
   In case any lot owner or the owners of a piece of land within the corporate
limits of this village, under notice or otherwise, shall construct a sidewalk
in violation of this subchapter, such village employee as is designated by the
Board of Trustees may stop the work of such construction and order the same to
be constructed in accordance with this chapter and the work already done to be
changed, and on the failure of such owner to change any such work, such village
employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees or other officer shall
forthwith change the work and the expense of the same shall be assessed and
taxed to the lot and collected as if taxes, as provided by law.
(1979 Code, Ch. 18, § 7)
§ 93.027 ESTIMATES OF COST OF WORK WHERE DONE BY VILLAGE.
   Before the village shall construct any new sidewalks, the Chairperson and
Board of Trustees shall cause an estimate to be made by such village employee
as is designated by the Board of Trustees, who shall act as Village Engineer
for that purpose, of the cost of materials and labor necessary to construct the
same and shall cause notice to be published or posted for three weeks, asking
for bids for the work, which bids shall be filed with the Village Clerk and
acted upon by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees at a regular meeting. No
bid shall be accepted or contract ordered for the construction of any sidewalk
for more than the estimate aforesaid. All proceedings contemplated under this
section shall be made a matter of record by the Village Clerk.
(1979 Code, Ch. 18, § 8)
§ 93.028 WIDTH OF SIDEWALK, DISTANCE FROM LOT LINE.
   All sidewalks in front of or along any lot or parcel of land within the fire
limits shall be constructed of such width as the Board of Trustees may from
time to time by resolution determine. All other sidewalks in the village shall
be not less than four feet in width. Sidewalks in the fire limits shall be
built plumb with the lot line; sidewalks in the resident district shall be
built six inches from the lot line, or if directed by such village employee as
is designated by the Board of Trustees, along the curb of the paved street.
(1979 Code, Ch. 19, § 5)
§ 93.029 AWNINGS IN SIDEWALK.
   All awnings hereafter erected shall be of canvas on iron frames or wood and
elevated at least seven feet at the lowest part from the top of the sidewalk
and shall not project over the sidewalk to exceed three-fourths of the width
thereof. They shall be supported without posts by iron brackets or by any
framework attacked firmly to the building so as to leave the sidewalk wholly
unobstructed thereby. If any person shall erect any awning contrary to the
provisions hereof, he shall be subject to a fine.
(1979 Code, Ch. 18, § 9) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.030 CURBS.
   (A)   Curb line established. The curb and gutter line of streets within the
corporate limits of this village is established at a distance of ten feet from
the lot line.
(1979 Code, Ch. 18, § 10)
   (B)   Curb corners. All corners of the curb line shall turn on a circle with
a radius of four feet.
(1979 Code, Ch. 18, § 11)
   (C)   Exceptions, Board order. The provisions of this section shall apply to
all streets within the corporate limits of the village, except such as the
Board of Trustees in their discretion may from time to time except from the
operation thereof.
(1979 Code, Ch. 18, § 12)
§ 93.031 RIDING OR DRIVING ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   It is declared unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, or their
agents, to ride, drive or permit to pass any horses, mules, oxen, cattle, or
other teams or any vehicle drawn thereby or any motor vehicle or motorcycle
upon any sidewalk within the corporate limits of this village.
(1979 Code, Ch. 15, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREETS
§ 93.040 GRADING, PAVING AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The municipality has the power to provide for the grading and repair
of any street, avenue, or alley. No street, avenue, or alley shall be graded
unless the grading is ordered to be done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds
of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-508)
   (B) The Board of Trustees may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or
relay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public
grounds, public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the
village corporate area and the area adjoining the village. These projects may
be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in
Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431. The Board of Trustees may by ordinance create
improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may include two or
more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways, and may
include two or more of the improvements in one proceeding.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
   (C) Whenever the Board of Trustees deems it necessary to make the
improvements in division (B) which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted, the Board of Trustees shall
by ordinance create an improvement district.
(Neb. RS 17-511)
Statutory references:
   Acquisition of additional land or an easement by purchase, gift, or eminent
domain, Neb. RS 18-1705
   Authority to create improvement districts, impose special assessments, and
issue bonds, Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-524, 18-1751
   Combined improvements, Neb. RS 19-2401, 19-2408 to 19-2415
   Creation of improvement district by petition of owners, Neb. RS 17-510
   Deferral of special assessments on land in agricultural use zone, Neb. RS
19-2428 through 19-2431
   Duty to keep streets and alleys open, in repair, and free from nuisances,
Neb. RS 17-567
   Improvement of federal or state highway or main thoroughfare, Neb. RS 17-412
   Improvement of street which divides city corporate area and area adjoining
the city, Neb. RS 17-509
   Inclusion of adjacent land in improvement district, Neb. RS 19-2427
   Jurisdiction over street which forms common boundary with county or another
municipality, Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, Neb. RS 19-2416
   Objections to improvement district funded by special assessments, Neb. RS
17-511
§ 93.041 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The municipality may, without petition or creating a street
improvement district, grade, curb, gutter, and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance not to exceed one block on either side of such paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from such
major traffic street.
   (B)   Such improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or any
unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed the minimum
standards for pavement set by the municipality for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
municipality may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or issue paving
bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 to 18-2004)
§ 93.042 STREETS AND ALLEYS; OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
village and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or
lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of
the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as shall be provided
by ordinance.
      (2)    Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and
become a part of such property, unless the village reserves title in the
ordinance vacating such street or alley. If the title is retained by the
village, such property may be sold, converted, exchanged or leased upon such
terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of such property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If the
title is retained by the village, such property may be sold, converted,
exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the village.
      (4)    When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on, or below the
surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the time title to
the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public or the
abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish such purposes
at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
Statutory reference:
   Eminent domain procedure, Neb. RS 76-701 through 76-724
§ 93.043 CROSSINGS.
   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of such village employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees,
such street, avenue, and alley crossings as the Board of Trustees shall deem
necessary. When a petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed
by an interested resident in the office of the Village Clerk, the Village Clerk
shall refer such application to such village employee as is designated by the
Board of Trustees who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the Board
of Trustees. Action by the Board of Trustees on such application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 93.044 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the Board
of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of such village employee as is
designated by the Board of Trustees, upon the erection of any new building or
buildings, to assign the proper numbers to the building or buildings and give
notice to the owner or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 93.045 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, OR SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, the person shall
inform the Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it
shall be such village employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees duty
to inspect the place of entry into the paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the
same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to
cut the paving under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
Board of Trustees or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close
the opening made, the applicant shall inform such village employee as is
designated by the Board of Trustees, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the Board of Trustees to order such village employee as is
designated by the Board of Trustees, under the supervision and inspection of
the Village Engineer or the committee of the Board of Trustees on the streets
and alleys, to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and charge the
costs thereof to the party who obtained such permit. The Board of Trustees may
consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be done by the party
holding such permit. Before any permit is issued by the Board of Trustees, the
applicant for such permit shall deposit with the Village Treasurer a sum set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be
cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot cost of construction basis. The
deposit shall be retained by the village for the purpose of replacing the
paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event that the work is done by the village.
In the event that the village elects to require the applicant to replace the
paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the village until
the work is completed to the satisfaction of such village employee as is
designated by the Board of Trustees or the committee of the Board of Trustees
on streets and alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the
applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the
municipality with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by
the Board of Trustees in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 93.046 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   Such village employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees may
require the owner of property served by a driveway approach constructed or
maintained upon the street right-of-way to repair or replace any such driveway
approach which is cracked, broken, or otherwise deteriorated to the extent that
it is causing or is likely to cause damage to or interfere with any street
structure, including pavement or sidewalks.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, such village
employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees may cause such work to be
done and assess the cost upon the property served by such approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.047 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by such
village employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees authorizing such
excavations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.048 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of such village employee as is designated by the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.049 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.050 HARMFUL LIQUIDS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the
gutter of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils,
which damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
   (B)   Burning of leaves, trash or other materials, the draining of water
from air conditioners and the dumping or draining of materials containing
chemicals or greases on any paved street or alley is prohibited. (1979 Code,
Ch. 17, § 6)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.051 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the municipality where
the dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or
business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.052 HEAVY EQUIPMENT; SPECIAL TIRES.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon the pavement, with wheels having cutting edges, or with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter, or curb, provided that, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the Police Chief is hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than 7/64 of an inch between November 1 and April 1, provided that school
buses, mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use
metal or metal-type studs all year and it shall be permissible to use farm
machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets. It
shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any
vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition
tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid. It shall be permissible to use a
rubber tired crane with a fixed load when such vehicle will be transported on a
state highway or on any road within the corporate limits of the municipality,
the municipality in which the crane is intended to be transported has
authorized a permit for the transportation of the crane and specified the route
to be used and the hours during which the crane can be transported, such
vehicle is escorted by another vehicle or vehicles assigned by the
municipality, and such vehicle's gross weight does not exceed the limits set
out in Neb. RS 60-6,288.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Tire requirements, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 93.053 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing.
Approval by that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company
granted a right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in
such manner as shall be designated by the Board of Trustees. Such poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by
the companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the Board of
Trustees. Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the Board of
Trustees, and the Village Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected.
The companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at their own
expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances
to be removed. The Board of Trustees shall designate another location as
closely as possible where the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner
that they will not interfere with the water system, sewerage system, poles,
wires, and mains of any public utility, adjacent buildings, or with travel on
the public ways and property. Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the
municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.054 SNOW, DEBRIS, AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push, or deposit snow, sleet, ice, or mud or
any debris, including leaves, grass, and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.055 MAIL BOXES.
   Any person residing within the village limits who is eligible for rural free
delivery of mail is authorized to place a mail box in the street immediately
adjacent to the property on which he resides. Such box shall be placed at the
edge of the traveled portion of the street, and mail boxes for all people
residing in an apartment house or a multiple dwelling project shall be placed
at one site.
(1979 Code, Ch. 17, § 8)
§ 93.056 TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Planting of cottonwood trees which make or shed cotton at any place
within corporate limits of the village is prohibited.
   (B)   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY is defined as the space between the boundary line
of a lot and the curb of the street, or in absence of a curb, the traveled
portion of the street.
   (C)   The owner of every lot shall maintain the public right-of-way free and
clear of all weeds and trash and obstruction, provided such area may be planted
to trees, plants, shrubs, grass, and flowers as herein provided and as approved
Village Board of Trustees. All vegetation planted which is not planted and
maintained as herein provided and approved by the Village Board of Trustees
shall constitute a violation of this section and shall be removed. Any
vegetation existing as of July 1, 2018 that comes into violation of any rule,
regulation, or order of the village may exist so long as it does not interfere
with any right-of-way or utility obstruction provisions of the Village Code of
Ordinances or any nuisance, dead, or diseased tree provision of the Village
Code of Ordinances, but such vegetation may not be replaced, extended, or
duplicated without approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (D)   No trees, plants, shrubs, grass, and flowers in the public right-of-
way which obstruct the view from the street of the curb, any fire suppression
devise, or any intersecting street or driveway shall be planted or allowed to
remain in the public right-of-way.
   (E)   All trees, plants, shrubs, grass, and flowers now or hereafter planted
in any public right-of-way shall be maintained in a neat, safe condition by the
owner of the abutting lot. All branches extending over the street or sidewalk
shall be trimmed to a height of at least eight feet above the sidewalk and 14
feet above the street.
   (F)   No trees, plants, shrubs, grass, and flowers shall be planted in any
public right-of-way closer than three feet to any sidewalk, curb line, or water
service.
   (G)   Tree hazards.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the term TREE HAZARD shall include:
         (a)   Any trees, plants, or shrubs in a public right-of-way which are
dead; or
         (b)   Any trees, plants, or shrubs in a public right-of-way which have
any dead branch one inch in diameter or larger; or
         (c)   Any trees, plants, or shrubs which by reason of disease or other
cause create a substantial hazard to persons, property, or other healthy trees,
plants, or shrubs; or
         (d)   Any tree, plants, or shrubs defined as a dead or diseased tree
under §
92.24 of the Village Code of Ordinances; or
         (e)   Any trees, plants, or shrubs failing to comply with this
section; or
      (2)   It shall be the duty of any person who owns and/or occupies any lot
or tract of land on which is situated, or which abuts any public right-of-way
on which is situated any tree hazard, to promptly abate such hazard. In the
case of any trees, plants, or shrubs described in divisions (G)(1)(a), (c), and
(d) above, abatement shall be by removal of the tree to ground level and
subsequent removal of the tree stump. In the case of any trees, plants, or
shrubs described in divisions (G)(1)(b) and (e) abatement shall be by removal
of the portion of the tree, plant, or shrub causing the hazard, including the
tree stump if necessary.
      (3)   Removal of all trees, plants, or shrubs in the public right-of-way,
and the stump, shall be at the expense of the owner of the abutting private
property and removal of all tree hazards and the stump shall be at the expense
of the owner of the subject property.
   (H)   If any branches shall not have been pruned or any trees, plants, or
shrubs, and stumps, shall not have been removed as provided division (G), the
Village Chief of Police or his or her designee shall give notice by certified
mail addressed to the owner of the lot or tract and, if the owner is not the
occupant, to the lessee or other person having control or management of the
property at the last known address of the addressee, to prune such branches or,
as the case may be, remove such trees, plants, or shrubs on or before a certain
date to be specified in the notice, and that if such branches are not so pruned
or, as the case may be, the tree, plant, or shrub is not so removed by that
date, the village may do such work and assess the expense thereof to the
property. The date specified in the notice shall be a date that is not less
than ten days after the date of mailing of such notice.
   (I)   Hearing and review.
      (1)   Not later than ten days after mailing of the notice by the Village
Chief of Police or his or her designee, the owner/occupant may file a written
request for hearing before the Village Board of Trustees to review the
administrative determination as to whether the trees, plants, or shrubs in
question constitute a tree hazard as defined in division (G) above. The Village
Clerk/Treasurer shall fix a date for such hearing and provide notice of the
hearing to the requesting party.
      (2)   Upon the date fixed for the hearing, the Village Board of Trustees
shall hear all objections and evidence presented by the owner and/or occupant
of the subject property and that presented by the Village Chief of Police or
his or her designee. If after consideration of all the evidence the Village
Board of Trustees shall find that the condition is a tree hazard, it shall by
resolution order and direct the owner and/or occupant to remedy the tree hazard
within a specified time and shall identify the acts necessary to remedy the
tree hazard.
      (3)   Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply
with the order of the Village Board of Trustees, the Village Board of Trustees
shall proceed to cause the abatement of the described tree hazard. Upon
completion of the work by the village, a statement of the cost of such work
shall be transmitted to the Village Board of Trustees, which shall bill the
property owner or occupant or levy the cost thereof as a special assessment
against the property, or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the
name of the village against the owner or occupant. The special assessment shall
be a lien upon real estate and may be collected in the manner provided for
special assessments.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to top any trees,
plants, or shrubs in a public right-of-way or any other trees, plants, or
shrubs on public property. For purpose of this section, TOPPING is defined as
the severe cutting back of healthy limbs to stubs larger than three inches in
diameter within the crown of the branches to such a degree as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Any tree topping shall constitute a tree
hazard, subject to removal as provided for in this section.
   (K)   Nothing in this section shall replace or interfere with the
enforcement and trimming of encroaching trees or shrubs on private property as
provided for in §§
93.003 or
93.006 of the Village Code of ordinances.
   (L)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section or other provision of
the Village Code of Ordinances, the village shall have the immediate right and
authority, without notice, to trim, remove, or prune any trees, plants, or
shrubs extending into a utility easement and endangering or obstructing utility
lines and utility services.
   (M)   Any violation of this section may, in addition to the enforcement
provided in this section, be enforced as an offense under §
10.99 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. D-117, passed 8-8-1994; Am. Ord. D-337, passed 8-7-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Running at large
   
94.02   Prohibited animals and fowl
   
94.03   Wild animals
   
94.04   Killing and injuring
   
94.05   Enclosures
   
94.06   Abandonment, neglect and cruelty
Dogs; General Provisions
   
94.20   Owner defined
   
94.21   Running at large
   
94.22   Rabies threat; proclamation; inspection
   
94.23   Capture impossible
   
94.24   Females in season
   
94.25   Dangerous dogs
   
94.26   Liability of owner
   
94.27   Impounding
   
94.28   Animal shelter
   
94.29   Barking
   
94.30   Kennels
Dogs; Licensing
   
94.40   License required
   
94.41   Service animals; exempt from license tax
   
94.42   License tags
   
94.43   Wrongful licensing
   
94.44   Uncollared dogs
   
94.45   Removal of tags
Cats
   
94.60   Owner and possessor of cats
   
94.61   Rabies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal,
or any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a
horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at
large on any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another,
or to be tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to
reach or pass into any public way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens,
turkeys, geese, or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-547
§ 94.02 PROHIBITED ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the
corporate limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, or other livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the
corporate limits any poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese, or any other fowls.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-207, 17-547
§ 94.03 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except such animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Powers of the Board of Trustees, Neb. RS 17-207
§ 94.04 KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the animal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
§ 94.06 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND CRUELTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE.  A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the village, or any
other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the village
or any other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws,
rules, regulations, or ordinances.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
animals, ratote birds or poultry.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation. A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly
abandons, cruelly mistreats, or cruelly neglects an animal is guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1009) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
DOGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.20 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed shall be
deemed the OWNER and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable for
all penalties herein prescribed.
(Neb. RS 54-606)
§ 94.21 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at
large at any time within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be
the duty of the Police Chief or designated animal control officer to cause any
dog found to be running at large within the municipality to be taken up and
impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog found off the premises of the
owner and not under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by
leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage, or other suitable means of physical
restraint.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 94.22 RABIES THREAT; PROCLAMATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees, whenever in its opinion
the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue
a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is
passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house,
garage, or yard on the premise wherein the owner may reside. Upon issuing the
proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring
any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
   (B)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not
vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, which has bitten
any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded
under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten
days. If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of
rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in
the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions herein. If the owner of the dog has proof of vaccination, it shall
be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at
least ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian at the owner's expense. If no signs of rabies are observed, the
dog may be released from confinement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-4406
§ 94.23 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Police Chief or designated animal control officer shall have the
authority to kill any animals showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of
rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.24 FEMALES IN SEASON.
   It is declared unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of a female dog
to permit her to run at large within the municipality while in season. Any such
female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be impounded or killed
according to the provisions herein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the municipality, and includes any local law enforcement agency
or other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.  
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a  DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.    Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
private grounds other than where the dog resides, or any public grounds in a
menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section or for a
reasonable veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such
dog or permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in
this state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control
authority shall not grant permission under this section if the county, city, or
village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous
dogs. After the permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and
such dog for a period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure
the owner’s compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city, or
village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division shall permit
the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign
shall be no less than ten inches by twelve inches and shall contain the words
warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches
high on a black background. (Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) of this section
that the dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily
injury, in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than
the owner or the owner's immediate family.
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction.  If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623) (Am. Ord. D-268, passed 9-9-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
§ 94.26 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by the owner, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory liability, see Neb. RS 54-601
   Joint liability, see Neb. RS 54-602
§ 94.27 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of any animal control official designated by resolution
of the Board of Trustees to capture, secure, and remove in a humane manner to
the municipal animal shelter any dog violating any of the provisions of this
chapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be
provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each
impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the shelter for a period of not
less than five days after public notice has been given unless reclaimed earlier
by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the Village Clerk
and at the shelter within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
such impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application of such dog, by regular U.S.
Mail, at the address of such applicant. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner
during the period of impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee and
daily board fee as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and on file at
the office of the Village Clerk. The owner shall be required to comply with the
licensing and rabies vaccination before release. If the dog is not claimed at
the end of the required waiting period after public notice has been given, any
designated animal control official may dispose of the dog in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same, provided that if,
in the judgment of any designated animal control official, a suitable home can
be found for any such dog within the municipality, the dog shall be turned over
to that person, and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and
meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this chapter. The
municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog impounded in the
animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the summary and humane
manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found
for such dog.
Statutory reference:
   Pounds authorized, see Neb. RS 17-548
   Pounds created by rabies control authorities, see Neb. RS 71-4408
§ 94.28 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The municipal animal shelter shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently
located for the impounding, keeping, and destruction of dogs. The said shelter
shall be sanitary, ventilated, and lighted.
§ 94.29 BARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, within the corporate limits of
the village, a dog that barks continually or repeatedly, thereby disturbing the
peace of the neighborhood.
(Ord. D-103, passed - -1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.30 KENNELS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall conduct a dog kennel within the
village without first having secured a license therefore in accordance with the
provisions of this section; and, when so licensed, such person shall operate
such dog kennel only during the term of the license.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to operate a dog kennel
shall be made to the Village Clerk by the owner or operator of the kennel. The
application shall state the name of the person desiring to operate the kennel,
the kind of breed, the number of dogs to be kept, the location of the kennel
and such additional information as may be required by the Village Clerk. No
license shall be issued until the Village Clerk has ascertained that the
location of the kennel complies with applicable zoning regulations.
   (C)   Term. Such license, if granted, shall remain in effect, unless
revoked, for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
   (D)   Regulations; general. For the purpose of regulating the operation and
conduct of dog kennels within the village, the following rules are hereby
established:
      (1)   All dogs shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times;
      (2)   All kennels shall be thoroughly disinfected with a recognized
disinfectant, not less than every 30 days during the months of November,
December, January, February, March, and April, and not less than every 15 days
during the months of May, June, July, August, September, and October; and
      (3)   All dogs kept in kennels shall, at all times, be securely penned
up, except when in charge of the owner of the kennel or some employee thereof.
   (E)   Definition. For the purpose of this act, a dog kennel shall be defined
as an enclosure where dogs are kept for the purpose of sale or an enclosure
where four or more dogs are confined for any purpose.
(Ord. D-103, passed - -1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS; LICENSING
§ 94.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six months
within the municipality shall within 30 days after acquisition of the dog
acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before May 1 of each year.
The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10, provided that the possessor
of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
May 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied herein
and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within 10 days thereafter.
Licenses shall be issued by the Village Clerk upon payment of the license fee
adopted by resolution by the Board of Trustees. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the
application is made and upon printed forms provided for such purpose his or her
name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned and kept
by the owner. A certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for
the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied
for, and no license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 94.41 SERVICE ANIMALS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE TAX.
   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by the municipal code,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
Statutory reference:
   Statutory fee exemption, see Neb. RS 54-603
§ 94.42 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Village Clerk shall issue to
the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the dog
until April 30 following such licensing.
   (B)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
Village Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set
by resolution of the Board of Trustees for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the General
Fund. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to issue tags of a suitable
design that are different in appearance each year.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 94.43 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Village Clerk for dogs.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.44 UNCOLLARED DOGS.
   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
municipality without a collar or harness are declared a public nuisance.
Uncollared dogs found running at large shall be destroyed or impounded by the
person so designated by the Board of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-607
§ 94.45 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CATS
§ 94.60 OWNER AND POSSESSOR OF CATS.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any cat to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed, shall
be deemed the owner and possessor of such cat and shall be deemed to be liable
for all penalties prescribed.
§ 94.61 RABIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees, whenever in its opinion
the danger to the public safety from rabid cats is great or imminent, to issue
a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any cat to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
date of such proclamation or until such danger is passed. The cats may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the
premise wherein said owner may reside. Upon issuing the proclamation, it shall
be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any cat to confine the
same as herein provided.
   (B)   Any cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies, which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under
the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days.
If upon examination by a veterinarian, the cat has no clinical signs of rabies
at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner. If the owner
of the cat or animal has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the
owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at
which time the cat shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the owner's
expense. If no signs of rabies are observed, the cat may be released from
confinement.
CHAPTER 95: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Prevention
   
95.01   Open burning ban; waiver
Poisonous and Flammable Gases; Explosives
   
95.20   Petroleum gas
   
95.21   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
95.22   Bullets
   
95.23   Blasting permit
   
95.24   Transportation
Fireworks
   
95.40   Definition
   
95.41   Permitted fireworks
   
95.42   Throwing firecrackers
   
95.43   Sale
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 95.01 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, trash fires, garbage fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A) of
this section for an area under the Municipal Fire Department's jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to
conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a
form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the Municipal Fire
Department's jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) of this
section.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for inclusion
in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) of this section in the course
of that state's or political subdivision's official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) (Am. Ord. D-285, passed 12-6-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Statewide ban; exemptions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES; EXPLOSIVES
§ 95.20 PETROLEUM GAS.
   Any person desiring to store or keep in their possession liquefied petroleum
gas shall place the containers outside of buildings on nonflammable docks or
platforms, and no such container shall at any time be stored within a building
of any kind.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 95.21 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas or add to, enlarge, or replace any facility used for
the storage of such gases, must first get permission from the Board of
Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall require the name of the gas, the place of
storage, and the amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the Board of
Trustees shall prescribe such rules, regulations, and precautionary actions as
they may deem necessary. Permit requirements for the initial construction or
location of storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence
on the effective date of the ordinance enacting this section, provided that any
such present use that is discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be
revived without a permit. The provisions of this section shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
   Authority throughout zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
   Authority to regulate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 95.22 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells, and percussions caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials, and high explosives.
§ 95.23 BLASTING PERMIT.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials within the
municipality shall secure a permit from the Board of Trustees and shall
discharge such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified
in the permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user's permit issued by the Nebraska State Patrol.
§ 95.24 TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the municipality shall
first acquire a permit from the Board of Trustees and shall take such
precautions and use such route as they may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to the county police, or any of the Armed Services of the
United States. No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled
stop for longer than five minutes within the municipality and in the event of
mechanical failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the
County Sheriff, who shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary
to protect the residents of the municipality and a reasonable time for removal
of the vehicle from the municipality.
FIREWORKS
§ 95.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks
at wholesale in this state to any person engaged in the business of making
sales or fireworks either as a jobber or as a retailer or both.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
      (1)   COMMON FIREWORKS.  Any small firework device designed to produce
visible effects by combustion and which is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations of the United
States Consumer Product Safety Commission set forth in 16 C.F.R., small devices
designed to produce audible effects such as whistling devices, ground devices
containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition and aerial devices
and firecrackers containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
Class C explosives as classified by the United States Department of
Transportation shall be considered common fireworks.
      (2)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Those materials manufactured exclusively for use
in public exhibitions or displays of fireworks designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. Includes but is not
limited to firecrackers containing more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of explosive
composition and other display pieces which exceed the limits for classification
as common fireworks. Class B explosives as classified by the United States
Department of Transportation shall be considered display fireworks. Display
fireworks shall be considered an explosive as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213 and
shall be subject to Neb. RS 28-1213 to 28-1239, except that display fireworks
may be purchased, received and discharged by the holder of an approved display
permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1239.01.
      (3)   PERMITTED FIREWORKS. Only sparklers, vesuvius fountains, spray
fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells
without explosive charge for the purpose of making a noise, lady fingers, not
to exceed 7/8 of an inch in length or 1/8 inch in diameter, total explosive
composition not to exceed 50 milligrams in weight, color wheels and any other
fireworks approved under Neb. RS 28-1247.
   JOBBER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
wholesale to any other person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
retail to consumers or to persons other than distributors or jobbers.
   SALE. Includes barter, exchange or gift or offer therefor and each such
transaction made by any person, whether as principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
(Neb. RS 28-1241)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 95.41 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding inch in length or inch in
diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed 50 milligrams each in
weight, color wheels, and any other fireworks approved under Neb. RS 28-1247.
(Neb. RS 28-1241(7))
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
Board of Trustees or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant
to written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
   Unlawful fireworks, see Neb. RS 28-1244
   Prohibitions not applicable, see Neb. RS 28-1245
§ 95.42 THROWING FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object; from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway, or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any
building; or into or at any group of persons.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.43 SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer for
sale as a distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal. Licensees shall only sell
fireworks which have been approved by the State Fire Marshal, and permissible
fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and July 5 of each year.
(Neb. RS 28-1246 - 28-1250) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
         
111.   HAWKER, PEDDLERS, BUYERS AND SOLICITORS
         
112.   SOLICITING FUNDS
         
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Tax
   
110.01   Tax, purpose
   
110.02   Amount of tax, occupations enumerated
   
110.03   Interstate or government business
   
110.04   When due
   
110.05   Duties of parties liable
   
110.06   Certificates
   
110.07   Payment, when made; no refund
   
110.08   Failure to pay
OCCUPATION TAX
§ 110.01 TAX, PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, there is levied an occupation tax upon
each and every occupation and business carried on within the corporate limits
of the village, as hereinafter specified and enumerated; every person, firm,
association or corporation, except for non-profit, religious, charitable, civic
or fraternal groups or organizations, including American Legion, Rotary Club,
churches and lodges, carrying on any business herein specified within the
limits of the village shall pay to the Village Treasurer annually or otherwise,
as the case may be, the sum hereinafter named as a tax upon the occupation and
business. All money so collected shall be forthwith turned over to the Village
Treasurer, and the money shall be and remain under the control of the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees for such use and purpose as other moneys
belonging to the General Fund, except that the Village Clerk shall pay over the
proceeds of the occupation tax on fire insurance corporations, companies, and
associations to the Village Treasurer who shall credit them to the special
occupation tax fund for benefit of the volunteer fire department.
(1979 Code, Ch. 11, § 1)
§ 110.02 AMOUNT OF TAX, OCCUPATIONS ENUMERATED.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
   Alcoholic beverages, per year
      (The occupation tax is equal to the amount of the fee the license holder
pays pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.)
   Billiard and pool halls, per year
      First table                              $10
      Each additional table                        $5
Bingo games, an annual permit fee:                        $10, plus 4% of the
gross receipts to be paid quarterly
Card tables, per table, per year                           $10
   Minimum                                 $50
Circus and menagerie, dog, pony, or tent show
   Per tent, per day                              $25
   Parade, where tent outside village limits, per day               $3
Food trucks, per year                              $10
Concessions, stands of any kind or description, carnival company, per stand,
per day   $25
Coin operated machines, any machine, mechanical or electrical, which upon
insertion of a coin may confer a prize or may be operated or used for a game,
contest or amusement of any description, excluding vending machines which
dispense tangible personal property or services, per machine, per year      $15
Express companies, on intra-state business, to and from the village, per
year      $25
Electrical wiring, per year                              $10
Fire insurance corporations, companies, and associations, per
year            $5
Music machines, each machine, per year                     $15
Minstrel troupes, stock companies, motion picture shows, or shows not otherwise
classified, or similar entertainment, showing under canvas
   First day                                 $25
   Each additional day                              $50
Pinball machines, shuffle boards and coin vending machines for playing games,
each machine, per year   $15
Plumber, per year                                 $10
Peddlers and solicitors, including dairy products, per year               $10
Telegraph companies, on intra-state business, to and from the village, per
year      $10
Telephone companies, per year                           $100
Trailer camps
   First year                                 $10
   Per year thereafter                              $5
(1979 Code, Ch. 11, § 2) (Am. Ord. D-51, passed 10-8-1984; Am. Ord. D-64,
passed 8-11-1986; Am. Ord. D-93, passed 5-7-1990; Am. Ord. D-96, passed 10-29-
1990; Am. Ord. D373, passed 10-10-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes authorized, see Neb. RS 17-525
   Fire insurance company tax authorized, see Neb. RS 35-106
   Liquor license tax authorized, see Neb. RS 53-132
§ 110.03 INTERSTATE OR GOVERNMENT BUSINESS.
   The occupation tax levied by this chapter is not levied upon any business or
occupation which is interstate or which is done or conducted by any department
of the government of the United States or the State of Nebraska or the officers
of either as such in the course of its or their official duties or by any
county or subdivision of this state or its officers as such.
(1979 Code, Ch. 11, § 3)
§ 110.04 WHEN DUE.
   On all occupations and businesses on which the tax is levied at a yearly
rate, the year for such tax shall be deemed to begin with the first day of
August of each year and shall end on the last day of July following; the tax
for that year shall be due and payable in advance on the first day of August of
every year and thereafter shall be delinquent, except that occupation taxes
collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and payable on November 1
of each year. On all occupations or businesses on which the tax is levied at a
daily, monthly, quarterly or similar rate, the tax shall be due and payable in
advance before the business begins for the number of days, months, quarters or
other terms, as the case may be, for which the occupation or business is to be
carried on within the taxing year.
(1979 Code, Ch. 11, § 4)
§ 110.05 DUTIES OF PARTIES LIABLE.
   It is made the duty of each and every person, firm, association or
corporation to pay the tax levied against him, them, or it at the time the same
becomes due as provided in §
110.04.
(1979 Code, Ch. 11, § 5)
§ 110.06 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.07 PAYMENT, WHEN MADE; NO REFUND.
   Every occupation tax levied at a daily, yearly, monthly, quarterly or other
rate must be paid in full in one payment, in advance, before the business is
commenced, whether the license is issued at the beginning of the term or at any
time thereafter; no persons paying an occupation tax shall be entitled to a
refund of any part of the tax so paid, and no tax payment is assignable.
(1979 Code, Ch. 11, § 7)
§ 110.08 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day they become due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
CHAPTER 111: HAWKERS, PEDDLERS, BUYERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Peddler defined
   
111.02   Occupation tax
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Bond
   
111.05   One day license
   
111.06   Place of business required
   
111.07   Exemptions
§ 111.01 PEDDLER DEFINED.
   For purpose of this chapter, any person who offers goods or services in
exchange for money or a pledge of money or who offers goods or services, at
retail, for purposes of consumption or use, in whole or in part, directly or
indirectly, by the purchaser, as an inducement for the payment of money or
pledge of money shall be considered a PEDDLER and shall comply herewith.
(Ord. D-85, passed 6-12-1989)
§ 111.02 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   There is levied an occupation tax on each and every hawker, peddler,
seller, solicitor and buyer of goods and services, at retail, for purposes of
consumption or use, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by the
purchaser, by sample or by taking orders or otherwise, including itinerant
magazine or book agents or sales persons who are engaged in the occupation and
business of selling or soliciting orders for the sale or purchase of goods,
wares, merchandise, magazines, periodicals, services or books within the
village limits, said tax being for the purpose of raising the revenue and being
in lieu of customary taxes paid by businesses with fixed locations in the
village.
   (B)   All of the sellers, agents or peddlers mentioned in division (A) shall
pay as an occupation tax the sum of $10 per year, and in addition thereto,
shall obtain the license and comply with the further requisites of this
chapter.
   (C)   In the event that the hawker, peddler, seller, solicitor or buyer of
goods as is outlined herein conducts his operation in interstate commerce so as
to make it impossible for the provisions of this occupation tax to apply to
him, said party shall nevertheless be subject to the further provisions of this
chapter relative to licensing and qualifying himself for the taking of orders
for goods.
(Ord. D-85, passed 6-12-1989)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each hawker, peddler, or house to house buyer, seller or solicitor of
goods, wares, services and merchandise, including books, periodicals and
magazines, at retail, for purposes of consumption or use, in whole or in part,
directly or indirectly, by the purchaser, by sample or by taking orders or
otherwise shall, before buying, soliciting, selling, attempting to buy, solicit
or sell, or soliciting any orders of any kind, obtain a license from the
Village Clerk and pay the occupation tax as is herein provided.
   (B)   In order to obtain a license as is provided for in this chapter, the
applicant shall give his name, the name and address of his employer, the
description of what he is selling, peddling, soliciting, or buying and the
method whereby he sells his products, whether the same are sold and delivered
at the same time the order is taken, and if order is taken whether the articles
sold are shipped into the village in interstate commerce or not.
(Ord. D-85, passed 6-12-1989)
§ 111.04 BOND.
   The Village Clerk, shall, before issuing a license, communicate with the
employer of the applicant as disclosed by the application and ascertain whether
or not the applicant is authorized or represents the employer, and the
applicant shall further give a bond with an approved surety company
guaranteeing to any citizen of the village that all money paid as a down
payment will be accounted for and applied according to representations of the
salespersons, that items purchased will be paid for as agreed, and further,
guaranteeing to any citizen of the village who did business with the agent that
the property purchased will be delivered according to the representations of
the salespersons. The bond shall be in the principal sum of $200 and to be on a
form to be provided by the Village Clerk. At the time of applying for the
license, the prospective licensee shall pay to the Village Clerk the sum of $2
for the General Fund to cover the cost of issuing the license and of
investigating the applicant. No license shall be granted by the Village Clerk
until investigation has been made and the bond placed on file. The bond may be
in the form of cash placed with a bond form as provided by the Clerk.
(Ord. D-85, passed 6-12-1989)
§ 111.05 ONE DAY LICENSE.
   There is created a one day license for the aforementioned sellers, agents,
and peddlers who sell goods or services paid in full and delivered to the
consumer during the effective day of the license. Application for the one day
license shall be on forms as provided by the Clerk. The license fee for the one
day license shall be $10 to cover the cost of issuing the license and
investigating the applicant. No bond shall be required for the one day license.
The license shall restrict the selling, or offering to sell, goods or services
at retail to those transactions only where the goods or services are completely
delivered or fully performed during the day of effectiveness of the license and
the consumer purchaser pays for the goods or services in full upon their
receipt thereof.
(Ord. D-85, passed 6-12-1989)
§ 111.06 PLACE OF BUSINESS REQUIRED.
   After the passage and approval of this act, it shall be illegal for any
person to sell, buy, solicit for sale or purchase, attempt to sell, solicit for
sale or purchase, attempt to sell, solicit or buy, or take orders for the sale
of any goods, wares, merchandise, periodicals, books, magazines and personal
property of any kind and services, at retail, for purposes of consumption or
use, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by the purchaser, by any
person not having an established place of business within the village without
complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. D-85, passed 6-12-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   Non-profits, charities and religious organizations shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. D-85, passed 6-12-1989)
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITING FUNDS
Section
   
112.01   Permit required
   
112.02   Permit application
   
112.03   Bond
   
112.04   Cost of investigating and issuing permit
§ 112.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of soliciting
funds for any charitable purpose or organization upon the streets of the
village or in any public place within the corporate limits of the village
without first securing a permit from the Village Clerk.
(1979 Code, Ch. 32, § 1) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business of soliciting funds for
any charitable purpose or organization shall file with the Village Clerk an
application for a permit, which permit shall state the name of the person who
makes the application, the purpose for which the funds were being solicited,
and the manner in which the funds will be disbursed.
(1979 Code, Ch. 32, § 2)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall, before issuing a permit, communicate with the
organization for whom the funds are being solicited to ascertain whether or not
the applicant is authorized to represent such organization and to ascertain
whether the purpose for which the funds will be used is a charitable purpose.
(1979 Code, Ch. 32, § 3)
§ 112.03 BOND.
   The applicant shall further give bond with a licensed surety company in
amount of $200 guaranteeing that the money solicited will be used for a
charitable purpose.
(1979 Code, Ch. 32, § 4)
§ 112.04 COST OF INVESTIGATORY AND ISSUING PERMIT.
   The applicant shall pay to the village the sum of $10 to be deposited in the
General Fund to cover the cost of investigating and issuing the permit.
(1979 Code, Ch. 32, § 5)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Compliance required
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Premises open to inspection
   
113.04   Hours and days of sale limited
   
113.05   On sale licenses
   
113.06   Persons under 21
   
113.07   Qualifications for licenses established by statute
§ 113.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquors or beer or other fermented
beverages in the village, unless the same be done in compliance with and under
the terms and conditions of this chapter.
(1979 Code, Ch. 31, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation or association shall manufacture or keep for
sale or sell alcoholic liquor, beer or other fermented beverages within the
village without first having obtained a license to do so, as provided by the
laws of the State of Nebraska and terms of this chapter, and paying the
appropriate occupation tax.
(1979 Code, Ch. 31, § 2)
§ 113.03 PREMISES OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   All premises where any license for sale of liquor or beer is granted shall
be open to inspection by any police or health officer at any time during which
the place so licensed is open to the public for business.
(1979 Code, Ch. 31, § 3)
§ 113.04 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE LIMITED.
   Alcoholic liquors, including beer and wine, whether for consumption on the
premises or off the premises, shall be sold only at such hours and on such days
as are permitted by Nebraska statutes, except that:
   (A)   Alcoholic liquors, beer, and wine may be sold at retail or dispensed
for consumption on the premises after 1:00 p.m. Sunday to 1:00 a.m. the
following Monday; and
   (B)   Beer may be sold at retail from 8:00 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. on Sunday.
(1979 Code, Ch. 31, § 4) (Am. Ord. D-28, passed 6-7-1982; Am. Ord. D-76, passed
8-23-1988; Am. Ord. D-143, passed 1-6-1997; Am. Ord. D-144, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 113.05 ON SALE LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person holding an "on sale" license to serve
any such beverage referred to in this chapter or to allow any person to drink
any such beverage seated at any table or booth in which the occupants are not
clearly visible to one passing by the entrance to the booth, nor shall such
beverages be sold on any premises maintaining blind screen or partitions.
(1979 Code, Ch. 31, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 PERSONS UNDER 21.
   Persons under 21 years of age shall not be permitted to participate in the
sale or dispensing of any beer or other fermented beverage, except as allowed
by the statutes of the State of Nebraska.
(1979 Code, Ch. 31, § 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSES ESTABLISHED BY STATUTE.
   Qualifications of a licensee for sale of beer or other fermented beverages
shall be such as are established by statutes of the State of Nebraska.
(1979 Code, Ch. 31, § 8)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
         
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
         
134.   (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Radio interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
   
130.06   Theft
   
130.07   Theft by shoplifting; photographic evidence
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$200 or more but less than $1500; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $200 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power plant
infrastructure facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a
person who has the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 17-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor; or
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of
Trustees in accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall
constitute the only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use the
streets, sidewalks, or public grounds of the municipality for signs, signposts,
or the posting of handbills or advertisements without written permission of the
Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 THEFT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The definitions found in Neb. RS 28-509 shall apply; and
      (2)   The offenses described in divisions (B) through (G) shall exist
when the value of the thing involved is under $500.
   (B)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she takes, or exercise control
over, movable property of another with the intent to deprive him or her
thereof.
      (2)   A person commits theft if he or she transfers immovable property of
another or any interest therein with the intent to benefit himself or herself
or another not entitled thereto.
      (3)   Except as provided for rental or lease of a motor vehicle in
subsection (4) of Neb. RS 28-511, it shall be presumed that a lessee's failure
to return leased or rented movable property to the lessor after the expiration
of a written lease or written rental agreement is done with intent to deprive
if such lessee has been mailed notice by certified mail that such lease or
rental agreement has expired and he or she has failed within 10 days after such
notice to return such property.
(Neb. RS 28-511)
   (C)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another by
deception as defined in Neb. RS 28-512.
(Neb. RS 28-512)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains property of another
by threatening to:
         (a)   Inflict bodily injury on anyone or commit any other criminal
offense;
         (b)   Accuse anyone of a criminal offense;
         (c)   Expose any secret tending to subject any person to hatred,
contempt, or ridicule, or to impair his or her credit or business repute;
         (d)   Take or withhold action as an official, or cause an official to
take or withhold action;
         (e)   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott, or other collective
unofficial action, if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit
of the group in whose interest the actor purports to act; or
         (f)   Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or
information with respect to another's legal claim or defense.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution based on subdivisions
(D)(1)(b), (c), or (d) that the property obtained by threat of accusation,
exposure, lawsuit, or other invocation of official action was honestly claimed
as restitution or indemnification for harm done in the circumstances to which
such accusation, exposure, lawsuit, or other official action relates, or as
compensation for property or lawful services.
(Neb. RS 28-513)
   (E)   A person who comes into control of property of another that he or she
knows to have been lost, mislaid, or delivered under a mistake as to the nature
or amount of the property or the identity of the recipient commits theft if,
with intent to deprive the owner thereof, he or she fails to take reasonable
measures to restore the property to a person entitled to have it.
(Neb. RS 28-514)
   (F)   (1)   A person commits theft if he or she obtains services, which he
or she knows are available only for compensation, by deception or threat or by
false token or other means to avoid payment for the service. Services include
labor, professional service, telephone service, electric service, cable
television service, or other public service, accommodation in hotels,
restaurants, or elsewhere, admission to exhibitions, and use of vehicles or
other movable property. When compensation for service is ordinarily paid
immediately upon the rendering of such service, as in the case of hotels and
restaurants, refusal to pay or absconding without payment or offer to pay gives
rise to a presumption that the service was obtained by deception as to
intention to pay.
      (2)   A person commits theft if, having control over the disposition of
services of others to which he or she is not entitled, he or she diverts such
services to his or her own benefit or to the benefit of another not entitled
thereto.
(Neb. RS 28-515)   
   (G)   A person commits theft if he or she receives, retains, or disposes of
stolen movable property of another knowing that it has been stolen, or
believing that it has been stolen, unless the property is received, retained,
or disposed with intention to restore it to the owner.
(Neb. RS 28-517)
(Ord. D-176, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 THEFT BY SHOPLIFTING; PHOTOGRAPHIC EVIDENCE.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he, with the
intent of appropriating merchandise to his own use without paying for the same
or to deprive the owner of possession of such property or its retail value, in
whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag for another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   (1)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, photographs of the
shoplifted property may be accepted as prima facie evidence as to the identity
of the property. The photograph shall be accompanied by a written statement
containing the following:
         (a)   A description of the property;
         (b)   The name of the owner of the property;
         (c)   The time, date, and location where the shoplifting occurred;
         (d)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
         (e)   The name of the photographer; and
         (f)   Verification by the arresting officer.
      (2)   The purpose of this division is to allow the owner or owners of
shoplifted property the use of such property during pending criminal
prosecutions. Prior to allowing the use of the shoplifted property as provided
in this section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a
reasonable opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a
motion for retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is
any reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying
affidavit may be misleading.
   (C)   This section shall apply only to theft of property not exceeding $200
in value.
(Ord. D-176, passed 10-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Curfew; duty of parent or guardian; defenses
   
131.06   Disturbing the peace
   
131.07   Soliciting alms and charities
   
131.08   Maintaining disorderly house prohibited
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick or
throw a football or to engage in any exercise or sport upon the municipal
streets and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent
the Board of Trustees from ordering from time to time certain streets and
public places blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in
such exercise and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 CURFEW; DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN; DEFENSES.
   (A)   Except as permitted under division (B) below, no person under 16 years
of age shall be, nor shall any parent, guardian or other person permit a person
under 16 years of age who is in their legal custody to be, on the streets,
alleys, vacant lots, property of others or in public places at night after the
hours of 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   (1)   It shall not be considered a violation of this section if the
person under 16 years of age:
         (a)   Is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person having the
legal custody of the person under 16 years of age; or
         (b)   Is going to or from a meeting or assemblage of lawful character;
or
         (c)   Is performing an errand or duty directed by a parent, guardian
or other person having the legal custody of the person under 16 years of age;
or
         (d)   Has employment which makes it necessary to be on the streets,
alleys, vacant lots, property of others or in public places at night after the
hour of 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   Provided, these exceptions shall not apply when a person under 16
years of age is playing or loitering unnecessarily on any street, alley, vacant
lot, property of others or in a public place at night after the hour of 10:00
p.m., whether alone or accompanied by a parent, guardian or any other person.
   (C)   No person under 16 years of age shall play or loiter in any street,
alley or public place at any time to the inconvenience of the ordinary traffic
on any street, alley or public place.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined in any sum not more than $100 and shall pay the costs of
prosecution.
(Am. Ord. D-520, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 131.06 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 SOLICITING ALMS AND CHARITIES.
   It is declared unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or their agents
to solicit upon the public streets or in any private residences or business
houses within the corporate limits of this village any alms, charities, gifts,
donations, contributions or benefices, whether for public or private benefit,
unless the person, persons, firms, or corporations, or their agents, so
soliciting shall have first secured from the Village Clerk a permit in writing
specially authorizing him, them or it to conduct such operations within the
limits of the village. A permit will be issued upon satisfactory proof that the
solicitor is duly authorized to make such solicitation.
(1979 Code, Ch. 15, § 9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 MAINTAINING DISORDERLY HOUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Disorderly house defined. A DISORDERLY HOUSE is defined as follows:
      (1)   Any room, house, building, structure, place or premises wherein or
upon any unlawful or illegal acts are committed in violation of local, state or
federal law, or which are kept in such a manner as to disturb, annoy or
scandalize the public generally, or persons within a particular neighborhood,
is declared to be a disorderly house;
      (2)   Any room, house, building, structure, place or premises which are
kept, maintained, used, erected, established or run for any of the following
purposes is declared to be a disorderly house; provided, however, that this
shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
         (a)   Prostitution, pandering or public indecency as those terms are
defined in the statutes of Nebraska;
         (b)   Unlawful manufacture, cultivation, growth, production,
processing, sale, distribution, storage, use or possession for any unlawful
manufacture or use of any controlled substance as that term is defined in the
statutes of Nebraska;
         (c)   Gambling as that term is defined in the statutes of Nebraska or
the keeping of gambling devices as that term is defined in the statutes of
Nebraska;
         (d)   Acts of disturbing the peace or disorderly conduct as those
terms are defined elsewhere in this municipal code;
         (e)   The reception, retention or disposition of stolen moveable
property of another;
         (f)   Clairvoyance, fortune telling or divination.
   (B)   Disorderly house prohibited; nuisance. It shall be unlawful for the
owner, lessee, renter, proprietor, or any other person or persons to keep, run
or maintain a disorderly house, or to knowingly collect or permit to be
collected therein persons who are engaging in any unlawful act or to knowingly
make, cause or permit, or suffer to be made therein any loud or improper noise
to the annoyance or disturbance of any person or neighborhood. A disorderly
house is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Inmate; visiting prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
become or remain an inmate of any disorderly house or to frequent or visit with
knowledge of, and participation in, the illegal activities occurring therein.
   (D)   Abatement procedure.
      (1)   The procedures in this division are applicable in the event of
repeated incidents of the type described in division (A). For purposes of this
section, REPEATED INCIDENTS means two or more of such incidents within the
immediately preceding 12 month period, which incidents are documented in
writing by a law enforcement agency. Such incidents need not have resulted in a
criminal conviction. The procedures in this division are also applicable to the
situations described in division (B).
      (2)   The Police Chief may give notice to the owner or occupants of the
disorderly house to cease the conduct. The notice shall be in writing, shall be
served personally or by certified mail, and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The location of the disorderly house;
         (b)   A description of the conduct which constitutes the room, house,
building, structure, place or premises a disorderly house;
         (c)   An order to cease the conduct;
         (d)   A statement that if the conduct continues the village may take
such legal action as may be necessary to restrain or suppress the conduct,
specifically including the seeking of an injunction in the District Court.
      (3)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant may make a written request for a hearing before the Village Board. At
such hearing, the Village Board shall determine whether the room, house,
building, structure, place or premises is a disorderly house. If the Village
Board determines that the room, house, building, structure, place or premises
is a disorderly house, the Village Board may authorize the appropriate village
officers to commence the appropriate action in court to suppress the conduct if
the conduct does not cease.
(Ord. D-221, passed 1-7-2003)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
   
132.08   Criminal impersonation
   
132.09   Sexual predator residency requirements
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, to unreasonably refuse or fail to aid such peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or municipality; or
   (B)   Securing such offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying such offender to the jail of the county or this
municipality.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1) Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another; or
      (2) Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3) Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or threaten to use violence,
force, physical interference, or obstacle or intentionally to obstruct, impair,
or hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace by
a peace officer or judge acting under color of official authority or a police
animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the peace officer's
official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty; or
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties; or
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person;
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.08 CRIMINAL IMPERSONATION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The definitions found in Neb. RS 28-608 shall apply; and
      (2)   The offenses described in division (B) shall exist when the credit,
money, goods, services, or other thing of value that was gained or was
attempted to be gained was less than $500.
   (B)   A person commits criminal impersonation if he or she:
      (1)   Assumes a false identity and does an act in his or her assumed
character with intent to gain a pecuniary benefit for himself, herself, or
another or to deceive or harm another;
      (2)   Pretends to be a representative of some person or organization and
does an act in his or her pretended capacity with the intent to gain a
pecuniary benefit for himself, herself, or another and to deceive or harm
another;
      (3)   Carries on any profession, business, or any other occupation
without a license, certificate, or other authorization required by law;
      (4)   Without the authorization or permission of another and with the
intent to deceive or harm another:
      (a)   Obtains or records personal identification documents or personal
identifying information; and
      (b)   Accesses or attempts to access the financial resources of another
through the use of a personal identification document or personal identifying
information for the purpose of obtaining credit, money, goods, services, or any
other thing of value.
   (C)   Criminal impersonation does not mean:
      (1)   The lawful obtaining of credit information in the course of a bona
fide consumer or commercial transaction;
      (2)   The lawful, good faith exercise of a security interest or a right
of setoff by a creditor or a financial institution; or
      (3)   The lawful, good faith compliance by any person when required by
any warrant, levy, garnishment, attachment, court order, or other judicial or
administrative order, decree, or directive.
(Neb. RS 28-608)
§ 132.09 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE.  To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL.  A public, private, denominational or parochial school which
meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003, and is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or
younger.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any sexual predator to reside within 500 feet
from a school or child care facility. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Each day that a person violates this section shall be considered a
separate violation. The penalty for this section shall be determined as set
forth in §
10.99 of this code.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison, correction or treatment facility operated
by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator's residence at that location.
(Ord. D-288, passed 2-7-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or
stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
133.06   Littering
   
133.07   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
133.08   Dangerous buildings and structures
   
133.09   Piling materials on streets, excavating lots
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by minors
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to minors
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.23   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.24   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Shooting highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.42   Removal or possession of highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.43   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.60   Discharge of firearms
   
133.61   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 28-1321(1)) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 28-1321
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to put any dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof or other filthy substance into any well or into any spring, brook, or
branch of running water of which use is made for domestic purposes.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality is prohibited, provided that grass,
leaves, and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost
pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality
may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   LITTER shall include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk; and
      (2)   WEEDS shall include but not be limited to bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (Centaurea Picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority to regulate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 133.06 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for such purpose.
   (B)   LITTER as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. WASTE MATERIAL as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material's function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect, continue, or keep up
any dam or other obstruction in any river or stream of water in the village and
thereby raise an artificial pond or produce stagnant waters which shall be
manifestly injurious to the public health and safety.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.08 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the corporate limits
of this village to erect or maintain any building or structure in such a manner
as to be unsafe or injurious to the public or to allow any sidewalk adjacent to
his property, any awning extending over the sidewalk to be placed or remain in
a dangerous condition, or to place or suffer to remain on any sidewalk any
obstruction injurious to the public use of the same.
(1979 Code, Ch. 15, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.09 PILING MATERIALS ON STREETS, EXCAVATING LOTS.
   If any person shall place or leave any pile of lumber, wood, brick, stone,
dirt or other material or thing upon any street in this village, or shall
excavate any lot or part of a lot in this village contiguous to any sidewalk
and shall leave the same open and exposed in such manner as to endanger the
safety of persons passing along the street, avenue, alley or sidewalk, such
person shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(1979 Code, Ch. 15, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 19 years to smoke
cigarettes or cigars or to use tobacco in any form whatever. Any minor so
charged with the violation of this section may be free from prosecution when
the minor shall have furnished evidence for the conviction of the person or
persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) (Am. Ord. D-347, passed 1-7-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, give, or furnish in any way any
tobacco in any form whatever or any cigarettes or cigarette paper to any minor
under 19 years of age.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) (Am. Ord. D-347, passed 1-7-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, to
obtain or attempt to obtain alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age or by
any other method in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
   Permitted employment for minors, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 133.23 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms alcoholic liquor, consume, minor, sale, and to sell.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-168.06, no minor may sell, dispense,
consume, or have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys,
roads, or highways, upon property owned by the State of Nebraska or any
subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any other place,
including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways,
or upon property owned by the State of Nebraska or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual or ceremony or in his or
her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02)
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
§ 133.24 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle
to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is
located in a public parking area or on any highway in this village.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this village; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this village.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description containing one-
half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than one-half of one percent of alcohol by
volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-of-
way;
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) or 53-123.11(1)(C), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA.  The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (B) (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
      (2)   No person other than one authorized by the municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   A motor vehicle is an abandoned vehicle:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “in
transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto, for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (E) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an abandoned vehicle:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 7 days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
      (2)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 shall
be an abandoned vehicle under this division (B).
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “in transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the municipality.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (D)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (C) of this section,
the municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of
an abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The municipality shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the municipality 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in division (D)(2) of this section shall also be sent to the
lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to
pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
municipality:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (D)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the
municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (D)
(4) of this section, the municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the municipality has determined that the vehicle should
be retained for use, the municipality shall, at the same time that the notice,
if any, is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
jurisdiction an announcement that the municipality intends to retain the
abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will vest in the municipality 30
days after publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (E)   (1)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last- registered
owners stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it
is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the municipality, shall be held by the municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle for a
period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the proceeds
shall be paid into the General Fund of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (I)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public right-
of-way, street, highway, alley or park or other state, county, or municipally
owned property; PRIVATE PROPERTY means any privately owned property which is
not included within the definition of public property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (J)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense.
Statutory reference:
   Additional regulations, Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 133.41 SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to shoot upon
the public highway and injure, deface, damage or destroy any signs, monuments,
road markers, traffic control or surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon the highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(1)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.42 REMOVAL OR POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic control, or traffic surveillance device placed
along a public street, road, or highway for traffic control, warning, or
informational purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess such a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
section.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(3)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.43 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the
municipality, other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled,
inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on such property
longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the municipality.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.60 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the municipality, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the
persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of
Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.61 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
CHAPTER 134: (RESERVED)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   TRAILERS
         
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Regulatory Codes
   
150.01   Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Basic Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.03   National Electrical Safety Code adopted
   
150.04   Life Safety Code adopted
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.20   Requirement
   
150.21   Limitation
   
150.22   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.23   Barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.35   Regulations
   
150.36   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.50   Definition
   
150.51   Prohibitions
   
150.52   Determination; notice
   
150.53   Hearing and appeal
   
150.54   Emergency
   
150.55   Special assessments
Building Inspector
   
150.70   Power and authority
   
150.71   Right of entry
   
150.72   Permit cards
   
150.73   Time of inspection
   
150.74   Appeal from decision
   
150.75   Plans, specifications, plats, and reports; municipal officials; duty
REGULATORY CODES
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted as though printed in full herein insofar as the code does not
conflict with the statutes of the State of Nebraska. One copy of the Building
Code is on file at the office of the Village Clerk and is available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Building Code shall be
controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922) (Ord. D-140, passed 11-11-1996; Am.
Ord. D-238, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 150.02 BASIC PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the International Plumbing Code, 2003
Edition, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended
editions as though printed in full herein, insofar as the code does not
conflict with the statutes of the State of Nebraska. One copy of the Plumbing
Code, along with the amendments thereto, are on file at the office of the
Village Clerk and are available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922; Am. Ord. D-238, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 150.03 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable wiring, the National Electrical Safety Code, 2002 Edition, as
amended and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as the code does not conflict with the statutes of the State of
Nebraska. One copy of the Electrical Code, along with the amendments thereto,
are on file at the office of the Village Clerk and are available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Electrical Code shall
be controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning
jurisdiction.
(1979 Code, Ch. 13) (Ord. D-238, passed 8-10-2004)
§ 150.04 LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for
safety, the Life Safety Code, 2000 Edition, published by the National Fire
Protection Association, as amended, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is
hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as though
printed in full herein insofar as the code does not conflict with the statutes
of the State of Nebraska. One copy of the Life Safety Code, along with the
amendments thereto, are on file at the office of the Village Clerk and are
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the
Life Safety Code shall be controlling throughout the municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(1979 Code, Ch. 12) (Am. Ord. D-65, passed 8-22-1986; Am. Ord. D-238, passed 8-
10-2004)
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.20 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
substantially repair, enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling,
or to erect, construct, substantially repair, enlarge, or relocate any fence,
garden or tool shed, or carport, or cause the same to be done, shall file with
the Village Clerk/Treasurer an application for a building permit. The
application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk/
Treasurer for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal
description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take
place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the
estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such
other information as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and
specifications so filed with the Village Clerk/Treasurer shall be checked and
examined by the Board of Trustees, and if they are found to be in conformity
with the requirements of this chapter and all other ordinances applicable
thereto, the Board of Trustees shall authorize the Village Clerk/Treasurer to
issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a permit fee set by the Board by
resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application
procedures contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by
reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern. A permit shall not be
required under this section for repairs that are minor, cosmetic and intended
to return the building, dwelling, fence, garden or tool shed, or carport to the
condition in which it existed before it needed repair.
(Am. Ord. D-334, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.21 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.22 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the village's jurisdiction and the improvement is $2,500
or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.23 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of such persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the
municipal police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are
erected and maintained as required.
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the Village Clerk and shall include the present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as may be requested on the
application form. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued
by the County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the
moving of buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the
real estate upon which the building is presently located. The Village Clerk
shall refer the application to the Board of Trustees for approval of the
proposed route over which the building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
Board of Trustees, the Village Clerk shall then issue the permit, provided that
a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by
motion of the Board of Trustees and conditioned upon moving the building
without doing damage to any private or municipal property is filed with the
Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten feet wide or less, and 20 feet long or
less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet high or less. In the event it
will be necessary for any licensed building mover to interfere with the
telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the company or companies
owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or line shall upon proper notice
of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting the poles, wires,
or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense of the
disconnection, removal, or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company's franchise. Whenever the moving of any building
necessitates interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire
belonging to the municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of the
building moving operation shall be given to the various municipal officials in
charge of the municipal utility departments who shall proceed in behalf of the
municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such disconnections and do
such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.36 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any municipal laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond,
cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement,
foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in a clean
and sanitary condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money deposited for
the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the conditions. If the
expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the
deposit set by the Board of Trustees, as required herein, the Board of Trustees
may recover such excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by
law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.50 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING as used in this subchapter is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure:
      (1)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (2)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair,
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
      (3)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable
to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of such
structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is declared to be a
nuisance.
§ 150.51 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, see Neb. RS
18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.52 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Health or designated official is of the opinion
that any building or structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, the
Board or official shall file a written statement to this effect with the
Village Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause the property to be posted
accordingly, shall file a copy of such determination in the office of the
County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner
thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by
personal service.
   (B)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. Such notice
may be in the following terms:
“To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
“You are hereby notified that __________________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by
__________________________________________ . The causes for this decision are
________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
“You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as
the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Village Clerk within ten days from the
date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within
60 days from the date of receipt of such notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon such person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.53 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Village Clerk
request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting as the Board of
Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board of Trustees'
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail. If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days
from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If
after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the Board of Trustees
shall proceed to cause such work to be done, provided that the property owner
may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be stayed. Where
the municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska
relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
§ 150.54 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the
municipality may summarily repair or demolish and remove such building or
structure.
§ 150.55 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.70 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the municipal official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance with all municipal
ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order, at the
direction of the Board of Trustees, all work stopped on any construction,
alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He
or she shall, at the direction of the Board of Trustees, issue permission to
continue any construction, alteration, or relocation when the Board of Trustees
is satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral
one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such written
order may be served by any municipal police. In the event that the Board of
Trustees fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the Police Chief shall be the
Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.71 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.72 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit, and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on
the principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
§ 150.73 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the municipal code: foundation inspection shall be made
after trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection
shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and backing is in place
and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be
made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be
unlawful for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point
indicated in each successive inspection without the written approval of the
Building Inspector.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.74 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector, that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short, or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter and by the Building
Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant may file a notice of
appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector
has been made. The Board of Trustees shall hear all appeals and shall have the
power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review
shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be
made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by this code to achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted
shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant.
§ 150.75 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS, AND REPORTS; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   A municipal official charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or
approving plans, specifications, plats, and reports shall not accept or approve
plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have not been prepared in
accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act.
(Neb. RS 81-3447)
Statutory reference:
   Geologist license not required for certain municipal work and other
specified activities, see Neb. RS 81-3541
   Similar exemptions under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, see
Neb. RS 81-3449 and 81-3453
CHAPTER 151: TRAILERS
Section
   
151.01   Trailer defined
   
151.02   Exemptions
   
151.03   Parking of trailer other than at camp prohibited
   
151.04   Application to operate trailer camp
   
151.05   License
   
151.06   Location
   
151.07   Trailer camp regulations
§ 151.01 TRAILER DEFINED.
   As used herein, the term TRAILER is defined to mean any nonautomotive
vehicle or structure which is designed to be pulled as by a tractor, truck, or
automobile.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 1)
§ 151.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Excluded from the operation of this chapter are trailers used for
transporting of goods and trailers which can be considered as machinery or
equipment and recreational trailers which are not being used or occupied.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 2)
§ 151.03 PARKING OF TRAILER OTHER THAN AT CAMP PROHIBITED.
   The parking or the moving on of a trailer and the pitching of tents on any
property, street or alley in the village limits other than at a duly licensed
trailer camp or as herein provided is prohibited, and no person shall permit
any trailer to be parked or moved onto any land owned or leased by him or under
his control or any tent to be pitched thereon except as herein provided.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 3)
§ 151.04 APPLICATION TO OPERATE TRAILER CAMP.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to operate a trailer camp shall
make application therefor to the Village Clerk. The application shall be
accompanied with a drawing showing the number of trailer houses to be parked,
the description and size of the proposed area, location and description of
electric light, garbage, sewage, and water facilities, and such other
information as the Clerk may request. An occupation tax of $10 shall be paid at
time of filing such application, to be credited to the General Fund.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 4)
§ 151.05 LICENSE.
   (A)   If the proposed plans are in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Zoning Code, the application shall be marked approved and, upon
completion of construction of the trailer camp in accordance with the
application, the Clerk will issue a trailer camp license. The license shall
have marked thereon the maximum number of trailers permitted under the license.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 5)
   (B)   A trailer camp license shall be issued for the period of August l to
August 1. Application for renewal and payment of the annual occupation tax
shall be made on or before August l of each year. The license shall be renewed
unless, in the opinion of the Village Board, the trailer camp is not being
operated in accordance with this chapter.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 6)
§ 151.06 LOCATION.
   No trailer camp shall be located on a residential lot as described in the
Zoning Code. Every trailer camp shall provide a lot area of at least 1,400
square feet for each trailer house, shall provide permanent electric light,
sewage and water connections for each trailer house, shall provide a garbage
incinerator for every five trailer houses, and adequate firefighting
facilities.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 7) (Am. Ord. D-323, passed 7-11-2017)
§ 151.07 TRAILER CAMP REGULATIONS.
   The operator of a trailer camp shall not permit more trailers to be parked
than the license provides, shall not permit the area to be strewn with refuse
or waste materials, and shall not permit the accumulation of garbage but shall
keep the area and facilities clean and free of fire hazards and weeds.
(1979 Code, Ch. 22, § 8)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Building Inspector
   
152.05   Procedure for preliminary plat
   
152.06   Procedure for final plat
   
152.07   Variances
   
152.08   Dedications and reservation of public land
Minimum Design Standards
   
152.25   Minimum requirements
   
152.26   General
   
152.27   Streets and alleys
   
152.28   Blocks
   
152.29   Lots
   
152.30   Easements
Required Improvements
   
152.45   Monuments
   
152.46   Utility and street improvements
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the orderly development
of the village and its environs by insuring, through prescribed rules and
standards, functional arrangements of street layouts, open spaces, adequate
community facility and utilities; to provide for general conditions favorable
for the health, safety and convenience of the community; and to provide for the
continued improvement of the standard of living for the citizens by promoting
new ideas and effective, efficient and attractive community design.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Each separate principal use building within the planning area of the
village shall be situated on a separate and single subdivided lot of record.
   (B)   No subdivision of land shall be permitted within the village or within
its planning area unless a plat is approved in accordance with provisions of
these regulations.
   (C)   These regulations shall apply not only to subdivisions as herein set
forth but shall also apply, insofar as payment of costs for improvement of
subdivisions is concerned, to those subdivisions, or parts thereof, already
platted and approved, which are undeveloped, wholly or partially.
   (D)   These regulations shall not apply to subdivision of burial lots in
cemeteries.
   (E)   These regulations shall not apply to a division of land for
agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of ten acres or more and not
involving a new street.
   (F)   These regulations shall not apply to a conveyance of a portion of a
parcel of an interest therein, solely to the village, another governmental
entity, or a public utility.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977; Am. Ord. D-110, passed 7-29-1993)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A tract or parcel of land bounded by public streets or alleys,
streams, railroads, unplatted lands or a combination thereof.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person duly designated by the village governing body
to enforce these regulations.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long range development plan adopted by the governing
body of the village.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one end connecting with a public street and
being terminated at its other end by a vehicular turn-around.
   EASEMENT. The right to use a parcel of land, granted to the general public,
utility, or corporation, by the property owner.
   ENGINEER. The engineer designated by the village governing body to act for
the village and in no instance shall the engineer or subdivider’s engineer be
the same person.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of platted land, intended as
a unit for transfer of ownership or for development.
   LOT OF RECORD. A tract of land described as an integral portion of a
subdivision plat which is properly recorded in the Register of Deeds Office of
Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska.
   PLANNING AREA. The statutory zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed planning body designated by the village
governing body as authorized by statute.
   PLAT. A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of the
subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission and Village Board for
approval and which will be recorded in final form.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic and, when used in this chapter without
further explanation, shall indicate a platted street or right-of-way.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. Those which are used primarily for
fast or heavy traffic.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those which carry traffic from minor streets to
the major system of arterial streets and highways, including the principal
entrance streets of a residential development and streets for circulation
within such a development.
      (3)   MINOR STREETS. Those which are used primarily for accessing
abutting properties.
      (4)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are parallel or
adjacent to arterial streets and highways and which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      (5)   ALLEYS. Minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owners, developers, or agents of persons or corporations
affecting subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, building development, or, if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes
resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process
of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.04 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall have primary responsibility for enforcing these
regulations.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.05 PROCEDURE FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Preapplication procedure.
      (1)   Before filing a preliminary plat the subdivider shall consult with
the Planning Commission for advice regarding general requirements affecting the
proposed development. A sketch of the proposed subdivision drawn on the
topographic survey map shall be submitted. The subdivider shall also submit a
location map showing the relationship of the proposed subdivision to existing
or platted streets and arterials and existing community facilities.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall determine the classification of the
proposed subdivision and shall inform the subdivider of the requirements
pertaining to the proposed subdivision as such requirements are established by
these regulations.
      (3)   The preapplication procedure does not require formal application
fee or filing of plat with the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Procedure for conditional approval of preliminary plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit to the Village Clerk eight copies of
the preliminary plat and supplemental material specified with written
application for conditional approval.
      (2)   A plat review fee shall be levied against the subdivider according
to the schedule below. Payment of the fee shall accompany the application for
conditional approval.
 
 
Schedule of Fees
Subdivision     Fee
Class/Type
     All  $15/plat $1/lot
 
      (3)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of 1 inch equals 100
feet or larger and shall be plainly marked "Preliminary Plat." The preliminary
plat shall include and show the following information:
         (a)   Legal description, acreage and name of proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Location of boundary lines in relation to section or quarter
section lines;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the owner, developer and engineer,
surveyor or land planner preparing the plat;
         (d)   North point (which shall be directed to the top or right side of
the plat), scale and date;
         (e)   Location, width, length, grades, and name of each existing or
platted street within proposed subdivision and within 200 feet thereof,
location, grades and width of other public ways, railroads, utility right-of-
way or easements, park and other public open spaces within the proposed
subdivision;
         (f)   The location and grades of all existing and proposed sewers,
water mains, culverts, and other underground installations within the proposed
subdivision or immediately adjacent thereto and the location and grade of the
nearest available such facilities;
         (g)   Existing and proposed contours at five foot intervals adequate
to portray existing and proposed conditions, referred to county datum; also the
locations of water courses, bridges, wooded areas and such other topographic
features as may be pertinent to the subdivision;
         (h)   Existing and proposed zoning of proposed subdivisions and
existing zoning of adjacent tracts;
         (i)   A small scale key or vicinity map adequately showing the
location of the tract;
         (j)   The location, width, and grades of proposed street access to
public roads, roadways, alleys, pedestrian ways and easements;
         (k)   The location, grades and character of proposed surface storm
drainage and sanitary sewer facilities;
         (l)   Layout, building setback, numbers, dimensions and square footage
of lots and the number of each block;
         (m)   Location and size of any proposed school sites, parks,
playgrounds, churches or other public lands in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan to be considered for sale or dedication to public use;
         (n)   Location and size of required parks and playgrounds;
         (o)   Draft of protective covenants whereby the subdivider proposes to
regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise protect proposed
development.
      (4)   The subdivider shall indicate by a letter when improvements as
required will be provided. Any proposed restrictive covenants for the land
involved shall accompany the letter.
      (5)   Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat to the Planning
Commission, the developer shall forward copies of the preliminary plat to the
Soil Conservation Service and the County Health Department pertaining to
drainage, location and feasibility of septic tanks, if applicable, and location
of water wells, if applicable. The Soil Conservation Service and the County
Health Department should send their report to the Village Engineer who should
review this information and submit his report to the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which time the
preliminary plat is to be considered for approval, the Planning Commission
shall submit a copy of the proposal to all agencies as required by law.
      (7)   After review of the preliminary plat and negotiations with the
subdivider, the Planning Commission shall reject or conditionally approve the
preliminary plat within 60 days after the official meeting at which the plat
was considered.
      (8)   The action of the Planning Commission shall be noted on three
copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any conditions
determined. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy relayed to
the governing body, and one copy retained by the Planning Commission.
      (9)   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute
approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of
conditional approval of the submitted plat as a guide for the preparation of
the final plat which will be subject to further consideration by the Planning
Commission and legislative body. Conditional approval of the preliminary plat
shall be effective for a period of two years unless an extension is granted by
the Planning Commission or unless a final plat has been filed on a portion of
the property.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.06 PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Final plats shall be submitted to the Village Clerk within one year of
conditional approval of the preliminary plat unless an extension is granted by
the Planning Commission. The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat
as conditionally approved and to the requirements of all applicable ordinances
and state laws; and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and
develop at the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all
requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission at least 15 days prior to the meeting at which it is to be
considered.
   (C)   The original and eight copies of the final plat and other exhibits
required for approval shall be submitted. The final plat shall be drawn in ink
on tracing cloth mylar, or similar material, and shall be at a scale of 1 inch
to 100 feet or larger. The final plat shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name of subdivision, scale, north arrow and date;
      (2)   Primary control points and descriptions and ties to such control
points to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat
shall be referred;
      (3)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements, and
other rights-of-way and property lines of residential lots and other sites,
with dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, and radii, arcs, and central
angles of all curves;
      (4)   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-of-way;
      (5)   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements;
      (6)   Number to identify each lot or site;
      (7)   Minimum building setback line on all lots if different than
required by the zoning regulation;
      (8)   Location and description of monuments;
      (9)   Certification by a registered land surveyor;
      (10)   Certificates required by the Code of Nebraska;
      (11)   Certificate for approval of the village.
   (D)   The final plat shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A letter requesting the creation of improvement districts signed by
the owner of the real estate; or
      (2)   A certificate by the engineer certifying that the subdivider has
posted a bond or certified check which is available to the village and in
sufficient amount to assure completion of all required improvements;
      (3)   Protective covenants in form for recording.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall approve or reject the final plat and
have prepared a recommendation to the legislative body recommending approval or
rejection. All reasons for recommending rejection shall be clearly stated.
Notification of approval or rejection by the legislative body shall be given
the subdivider within 60 days after submission of the final plat.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.07 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend and the legislative body may
grant variances from the provisions of these regulations but only after
determining that:
      (1)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the
property;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to adjacent property.
   (B)   The requirement of filing and recording a plat for subdivision shall
not be waived.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.08 DEDICATIONS AND RESERVATION OF PUBLIC LAND.
   (A)   Dedication.
      (1)   Before final plat approval is given the subdivider, he shall be
required to dedicate to the public use all streets, alleys, and buffer strips
as required by the Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Commission, and these
regulations. Acceptance of dedicated land shall be recorded in the minutes of
the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Subdividers of "commercial" type subdivisions may be required to
dedicate land for off-street parking as determined necessary by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Reservation. Before final plat approval is given the subdivider, he
shall be required to reserve sites for parks, playgrounds, open spaces, and
schools as determined by the Planning Commission to be sufficient and in
compliance with the Comprehensive Plan. Reservation of land for public
acquisition shall be for a period not to exceed three years from the date the
plat as officially recorded.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.25 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   No subdivision plat shall be approved and accepted unless it conforms to the
minimum requirements set forth in §§
152.26 et seq.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.26 GENERAL.
   Land within the proposed subdivision which the Planning Board finds to be
unsuitable for subdividing due to flooding or bad drainage or other topographic
features likely to be harmful to the safety, welfare or general health of the
future residents of the proposed subdivision shall not be subdivided until the
objectionable features have been eliminated or until adequate safeguards
against such hazards are provided.
   (Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.27 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The arrangement of major streets shall conform as nearly as possible
to the Major Street Plan with provisions for the extension of major and
collector streets. Streets in the subdivision normally shall connect with
streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions or provision
shall be made for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts.
   (B)   Minor residential streets should be so planned as to discourage
through traffic. Cul-de-sacs are permitted. Cul-de-sacs shall normally not be
longer than 600 feet and shall terminate with a turn-around having a diameter
of not less than 100 feet.
   (C)   Where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to or contains an existing or
proposed major or controlled access thoroughfare, provision shall be made for a
marginal access street approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of
such right-of-way or lots shall back up to the major street and have access
only to the minor street.
   (D)   Half streets shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Under normal conditions streets shall be laid out so as to intersect
as nearly as possible at right angles. More than four approaches to any
intersection shall be prohibited. Intersecting streets shall be at least 150
feet apart.
   (F)   The Planning Commission may require dedicated alleys for service
access in commercial and industrial areas. The Planning Commission may require
dedicated alleys for service access in residential areas.
   (G)   The right-of-way widths, pavement widths (face to face of curb) and
grades for interior streets and alleys included in any subdivision shall not be
less than the minimum dimensions or more than the maximum grades for each
classification as follows.
Type Right-of-Way Pavement Grade Minimum Sight Distance on Vertical Curves
                                                          Minimum Sight
Type               Right-of-Way Pavement      Grade       Distance on Vertical
                                                          Curves
Arterial streets   *100'        48'           6%          400'
Marginal access    30'          24'           8&          300'
streets
Collector streets  *60'         37'           10%         300'
Minor streets      50'          37'           10% average 300'
Alleys             20'          12' res.      Max.        None
                                20' comm. no.
Cul-de-sac streets 50'          37'           10% average 200'
* Streets in these classifications shall be designed and graded to the full
right-of-way
 
   (H)   The horizontal alignment on all streets except in unusual cases shall
be as follows.
      Radii of Horizontal Curves
Arterial streets            700' minimum
Collector streets         300' minimum
Minor streets            100' minimum
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.28 BLOCKS.
   Except in unusual circumstances, the maximum length of blocks shall be 800
feet. Crosswalks may be required on all blocks having a maximum length in
excess of 500 feet.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.29 LOTS.
   (A)   The minimum average dimensions of residential lots in the plat shall
conform with Zoning Code.
   (B)   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to permit
building setbacks as required by the Zoning Code.
   (C)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (D)   Every lot shall abut and have access to a public street.
   (E)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where they back upon a
major street.
   (F)   Setback or building lines may be shown on all lots but shall not be
less than the setback required by the Zoning Code.
   (G)   Where not served by a public sewer, lot dimensions and areas shall in
addition conform to any recommendations of the State Department of Health,
County Health Department, Village Engineer and Planning Commission.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.30 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for sanitary
sewers, where necessary, and shall be a total of at least 20 feet wide.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way of such width as will be adequate for both water flow and
maintenance operations.
   (C)   Perpetual easements shall be granted to the Village Light and Water
Department, Kansas-Nebraska Gas Company, Roosevelt Public Power District and
United Telephone System Company, their successors and assigns, to erect,
operate, maintain, repair and renew poles, wires, cables, conduits and other
related facilities and extend thereon wires or cables for the carrying and
transmission of electric current for light, heat and power and for the
transmission of signals and sounds of all kinds and the reception on, over,
through, under and across a five foot wide strip of land abutting all front and
side boundary lot lines; an eight foot wide strip of land abutting the rear
boundary lines of all interior lots; and a 16 foot wide strip of land abutting
the rear boundary lines of all exterior lots. The term EXTERIOR LOTS is herein
defined as those lots forming the outer perimeter of the above-described
addition. The 16 foot wide easement will be reduced to an eight foot wide strip
when the adjacent land is surveyed, platted anal recorded. No permanent
buildings or retaining walls shall be placed in the easement ways, but the same
may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping and other purposes that do not
then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses or rights herein granted.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.45 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points of
curves in streets and at intermediate points as shall be required by the
Engineer. The monuments shall be of such material, size and length as may be
approved by the Engineer.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 152.46 UTILITY AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility and street improvements shall be provided in each new
subdivision in accordance with the requirements in the following schedules.
Standards for improvements shall be approved by the Engineer and shall be in
accordance with the Comprehensive Plan. All utilities shall be underground.
   (B)   The requirements for each class and type of subdivision shall be as
follows.
      (1)   All subdivisions within the corporate limits of the village or
touching the corporate limits of the village shall be improved with street
grading, storm sewer system or other drainage improvements, public water,
public sewer, paved streets, curb and gutter, and lighting.
      (2)   All subdivisions lying within the planning area that do not adjoin
the corporate limits shall be improved with street grading, four inches
stabilized base and two inches of gravel, storm sewer system or other drainage
improvements and lighting and any other improvements ordered by the Village
Engineer and Planning Commission. If the majority of frontages in the proposed
subdivision are 150 feet or less, curb, gutter and three and one-half foot wide
sidewalk shall be required.
      (3)   (a)   An area of not less than 10% of the total subdivision area
shall be designated and used for park, playground and recreational purposes or
a cash donation equal to 10% of the value of the subdivided property to the
city Park Fund in lieu of designating 10% of land.
         (b)   The entire park area shall be kept free of weeds and trash.
      (4)   It is the stated intent of the county to primarily provide rural
and countywide services. It is not intended that the county be obligated to
provide urban services, including utility systems maintenance, park
maintenance, local road maintenance and related services normally required in
housing projects. Therefore, it will be the obligation of the subdivider to
present to the Village Planning Commission a precise approach to handling and
providing these services. The approach may include the formation of districts,
homeowner’s organizations or other methods to operate and provide for long term
maintenance and service. The approach shall be made binding on the subdivider
in a form, agreement, or contract in a manner which is accepted by the Village
Attorney.
      (5)   In event that any or all of the utility and street improvements as
required in subsection (2) are not in place at the time of the presentation of
the final plat of the subdivision for final approval, the owner of the property
in the proposed subdivision shall enter into a written agreement with the
village, to be approved by the Board of Trustees, to provide as follows.
         (a)   Owner agrees to construct such improvements within a time
specified.
         (b)   Owner consents with respect to improvements which the village
shall construct to pay the cost or that part of the cost which the village has
the power to levy special assessments.
         (c)   Owner waives with respect to any construction or special
assessments levied by the village the provision of any statute authorizing
protest or objections to the making of such improvements.
         (d)   Owner agrees that his personal representative, heirs, devisees,
legatees, successors and assigns are bound by the agreement.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977; Am. Ord. D-33, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with the provisions of
these regulations shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $100, and
the costs of prosecution for each violation, and in default of payment of such
forfeiture and costs and imprisonment in the county jail until payment thereof
for a period not exceeding 30 days. Each day a violation exists or continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. C-67, passed 7-11-1977)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan, copies of which are on file in the office of the
Village Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances
as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. D-206, passed 11-5-2002)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Zoning regulations adopted
§ 154.01 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements, the Zoning Regulations for the Village of
Morrill, Nebraska, published in pamphlet form, have been adopted by the Board
of Trustees on November 5, 2002. Three copies of the adopted zoning regulations
shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk and available for inspection by
any member of the public during office hours.
(Ord. D-206, passed 11-5-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to Kansas-Nebraska Natural Gas
B-59     5-7-1964    Company to operate a gas transmission and distribution
                     system for a period of 25 years.
                     Granting a nonexclusive franchise to Midwest Cable
B-86     10-3-1966   Television to operate a coaxial cable system in the
                     village.
                     Extending the franchise granted to Midwest Cable
C-76     8-7-1978    Television Inc., which has been assigned to Metro
                     Enterprises, Incl. for a period of ten years.
                     Granting a nonexclusive franchise to T.D.S. Collection
D-59     4-7-1986    Service, Inc., to operate a trash and garbage collection
                     system in the village for a period of three years.
D-82     3-6-1989    Amending Ord. D-59 and extending the term for a period of
                     three years.
D-84     5-15-1989   Granting a franchise to K N Energy, Inc., to operate a gas
                     transmission and distribution system in the village.
D-98     - -         Granting a franchise to TCI Cablevision of Nebraska, Inc.,
                     for the construction and operation of a cable system.
                     Amending Ord. D-82 by extending the term of the franchise
D-105    - -         by five years, with an option to renew for an additional
                     three years.
                     Amending Ord. D- 82, repealing Ord. D- 105, and providing
D-142    - -         for the extension of nonexclusive franchise to T.D.S.
                     Collection Services, Inc.
D-152    1-27-1998   Amending Ord. D- 84.
                     Extending the rights granted to TDS Collection Services,
D-220    1-7-2003    by Ord. D-142, for an additional period of five years
                     after the date of filing of such acceptance.
D-269    9-9-2008    Amending Ord. D- 142, amending the fees for the collection
                     of solid waste.
                     Repealing Ords. D- 84 and D-152, granting SourceGas
D-301    3-11-2014   Distribution LLC a 25-year franchise for gas transmission
                     and distribution in the village.
D-303    4-8-2014    Repealing Ord. D-98, establishing a local policy for the
                     provision of cable television service by franchise.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCE
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1979 Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section       Code Section
10-101 - 10-143       35.12
10-201 - 10-209       35.12
10-301 - 10-305       35.12
10-401 - 10-411       35.12
10-606 - 10-614       35.12
11-101                30.03,
                      33.31
11-103 - 11-118       33.30
11-104                33.30
11-105                33.30
11-109                33.30
11-110                33.30
11-111                33.30
11-112                33.30
11-113                33.30
11-114                33.30
11-115                33.30
11-116                33.30
11-117                33.30
11-118                33.30
12-1001 - 12-1004     35.12
13-403                93.010
13-503(7)             35.01
13-504                35.33
13-505                35.33
13-506                35.33,
                      35.37
13-507                35.33
13-508                35.35
13-509                35.35
13-509.01             35.32
13-509.02             35.32
13-511                35.37
13-518 - 13-522       35.35,
                      35.37
13-606                35.03
13-609                35.14
13-1802               32.61
16-714 - 16-716       35.10
17-202                30.01
17-203                30.01
                      30.03,
17-204                33.03,
                      33.04
17-205                33.03
                      10.99,
17-207                30.02,
                      94.02,
                      94.03
17-208                92.01,
                      92.02
17-209                33.45
                      30.01,
17-209.02             31.01,
                      33.45
17-210                30.04,
                      30.34
17-213                31.08
17-412                93.040
17-502                11.01
17-503                93.007
17-503.01             93.007
17-503.02             93.008
                      10.99,
17-505                30.30,
                      31.07
17-508                93.040
17-509 et seq.        93.025
17-509                93.040,
                      93.044
17-509 - 17-524       93.040
17-510                93.040
17-511                93.040
17-522 - 17-524       93.021,
                      93.025
17-524                93.021
17-525                110.02
                      94.21,
17-526                94.40,
                      94.42,
                      94.44
17-529.01             35.12
17-529.08             35.12
17-531                32.20
17-534                32.20,
                      35.12
17-537                32.20
17-538                32.20
17-543                32.20
17-547                94.01,
                      94.02
17-548                94.27
17-549                95.20,
                      95.21
                      92.24,
17-555                93.003,
                      131.02 -
                      131.04
                      95.40,
                      95.41,
17-556                131.01,
                      133.60,
                      133.61
                      72.15,
                      93.003,
                      93.006,
                      93.020,
17-557                93.047 -
                      93.051,
                      93.054,
                      131.02,
                      131.03
17-557.01             93.003,
                      93.006
17-558                93.042
17-559                93.042
17-563                93.004,
                      133.05
                      93.002,
17-567                93.040,
                      93.045
17-568.01             35.02
17-568.02             35.02
17-604                33.30
17-605                31.03
17-606                31.04
17-607                35.09
17-607 - 17-609       31.04
17-608                35.11
17-609                35.11
17-610                31.06
17-611                33.45
17-612                33.45
                      30.32,
17-613                30.34 -
                      30.36,
                      35.02
                      10.15,
17-614                30.32,
                      30.33,
                      30.37
17-615                30.35
17-616                30.33,
                      33.10
17-701                35.30
17-702                35.62
17-706                35.36
17-708                35.05
17-710                35.07
17-711                35.04
17-714                35.04
17-715                35.04
17-718                32.40
17-720                35.10
17-905                35.12
17-908                35.12
17-911                35.12
17-920                131.04
17-925.01             32.21
17-939                35.12
17-953                32.40,
                      93.009
17-953.01             93.009
17-954                93.009
17-958                35.12
17-968                35.12
                      92.21,
17-1001               95.21,
                      150.01,
                      150.02
17-2103               130.02
18-131                30.34
                      30.30,
18-132                150.01,
                      150.02
18-305 - 18-312       33.46
18-412.01             35.02
18-1001 - 18-1006     93.007
18-1203               35.12
18-1214               35.64
18-1216               35.06
18-1705               93.040
                      10.99,
                      30.02,
                      92.20,
                      92.21,
18-1720               92.24,
                      95.21,
                      130.03,
                      133.01,
                      133.05,
                      150.51
18-1722               10.99
18-1736               72.25,
                      72.26
18-1737               72.26,
                      72.31
18-1738               72.25,
                      72.28
18-1738.01            72.29
18-1738.02            72.28,
                      72.29
                      72.26,
18-1739               72.27,
                      72.28,
                      72.30
18-1740               72.30
18-1741               72.30
18-1741.01            72.25
18-1743               150.22
18-1748               93.046
18-1751               93.040
18-1752               92.21
18-1755               93.009,
                      93.011
18-1756               35.02
18-1801 - 18-1805     35.12
18-2001 - 18-2004     93.041
18-2003               93.041
18-2005               93.040
18-2803               35.38
18-2804               35.03,
                      35.38
18-2805               35.38
18-2806               35.38
18-2807               35.38
18-2808               35.38
19-710                92.23
19-902                150.01,
                      150.02
19-907 - 19-910       32.03
19-915                30.37
19-922                150.01,
                      150.02
19-924 - 19-929       32.02
19-1101               31.04
19-1102               31.03
19-1102 et seq.       31.03
19-1103               31.03,
                      31.04
19-1104               31.03
19-1301 - 19-1304     35.08
19-1302               35.08
19-1309               35.60
19-1310               35.60
19-1311               35.60
19-1312               35.60
19-2401               93.040
19-2408 - 19-2415     93.040
19-2416               93.040
19-2417               93.025
19-2427               93.040
19-2428 - 19-2431     93.040
19-2902               35.03
19-2903               35.03
19-2904               35.03
19-2905               35.03
19-3101               30.07
19-3701               30.36
20-203                94.25
23-122                31.03
23-186                35.64
23-3513               35.12
25-1801               50.06
25-21,275             50.06
25-2703               30.30
28-109                94.25
28-431                133.40
28-509                130.06
28-511                130.06
28-512                130.06
28-513                130.06
28-514                130.06
28-515                130.06
28-517                130.06
28-519                130.01
28-520                94.25,
                      130.02
28-521                94.25,
                      130.02
28-523                133.06
28-608                132.08
28-609                132.01
28-610                132.02
28-903                132.03
28-904                132.04
28-906                132.05
28-907                132.07
28-908                31.07,
                      132.06
28-1008               94.06,
                      94.25
28-1009               94.06
28-1009.02            94.07
28-1009.03            94.07
28-1012               94.06
28-1013.01            94.07
28-1013.02            94.07
28-1213 - 28-1239     95.40
28-1213               95.40
28-1233(3)            95.23
28-1241               95.40
28-1241(7)            95.41
28-1244               95.41
28-1245               95.41
28-1246 - 28-1250     95.43
28-1247               95.40,
                      95.41
28-1303               133.07
28-1304               133.03
                      92.20,
28-1321               92.24,
                      130.03,
                      133.01
28-1321(1)            133.01
28-1322               131.06
28-1418               133.20
28-1419               133.21
28-1465               32.61
28-1466               32.61
28-1472               32.61
29-215                32.61
29-422 - 29-429       94.06
29-422                70.07
29-424                70.07
29-4001.01            132.09
29-4003               132.09
32-101                30.01
32-404                34.01,
                      34.02
32-532                30.01
32-554                30.01
32-556                34.01
32-557                30.01
32-560                30.06,
                      30.07
32-560 - 32-572       30.06
32-561                30.06
32-569                30.06
32-628 - 32-631       35.61
32-802                35.61
33-139.01             32.42
33-141 - 33-143       31.03
35-101 - 35-103       32.42
35-102                31.07
35-106                110.02
35-108                32.42
37-1254.01            32.61
37-1254.02            32.61
39-301                131.03
39-302                131.03
39-307                133.04
39-835 - 39-842.01    35.12
45-601 - 45-622       35.13
45-623                35.13
46-1212               93.012
48-1503               35.02
49-801(16)            10.05
49-1408               33.46
49-1425               33.46
49-1499.04            33.46
49-14,102             33.46
49-14,103.01          33.46
49-14,103.02          33.46
49-14,103.03          33.46
49-14,103.05          33.46
49-14,103.06          33.46
51-201                35.61,
                      90.01
51-201 - 51-219       32.01,
                      90.02
51-201.01             90.06
51-202                32.01
51-204                32.01
51-205                32.01,
                      90.02
51-206                90.05
51-207                32.01,
                      90.02
51-209                90.01
51-210                32.01,
                      90.03
                      32.01,
                      90.02,
51-211                90.03,
                      90.06,
                      90.07
51-212                90.06
51-213                90.08
51-214                90.09
51-215                90.10
51-216                90.04
51-501                35.61
53-103                133.23
53-103.01 - 53-103.42 133.23
53-103.23             133.22
53-123.11(1)(C)       90.20,
                      133.24
53-124.04(3)          90.20,
                      133.24
53-132                110.02
53-168.06             133.21,
                      133.23
53-180.01             133.21
53-180.02             133.23
53-180.05             133.21
53-186                133.24
53-401 - 53-409       133.23
54-601                94.26
54-602                94.26
54-603                94.40 -
                      94.42
54-606                94.20
54-607                94.44
54-617                94.25
54-618                94.25
54-619                94.25
54-620                94.25
54-621                94.25
54-622.01             94.25
60-301 et seq.        35.64
60-376                133.40
60-3,113              72.26,
                      72.27
60-4,126              73.03
60-4,163              32.61
60-4,164              32.61
Ch. 60, Art. 6        70.01
60-606 - 60-676       70.01
60-376                133.43
60-615                73.03
60-658.01             71.07
                      Chs.
60-680                70,
                      71,
                      72
60-681                71.01
60-682.01             71.07
60-683                Ch. 70
60-6,114              72.16
60-6,118              72.27
60-6,119              71.05
60-6,130(1)           133.41
60-6,130(3)           133.42
60-6,134.01           71.07
60-6,164 - 60-6,168   Ch.
                      72
60-6,165              72.36
60-6,185              71.50
60-6,186              71.50
60-6,190              71.50
60-6,196              32.61
60-6,197              32.61
60-6,211.01           32.61
60-6,211.02           32.61
60-6,211.08           133.24
60-6,250              93.052
60-6,288              93.052
60-6,355              73.02
Ch. 60, Art. 19       91.04
60-1901               133.40
60-1901 - 60-1911     133.40
60-1902               91.04,
                      133.40
                      91.04,
60-1903               91.05,
                      133.40
60-1903.01            133.40
60-1905               133.40
60-1906               133.40
60-1907               133.40
60-1908               133.40
60-1909               133.40
60-1911               91.05
64-118                11.01
70-624.04             33.46
70.1601               50.05
70-1615               50.05
71-1637               35.61
71-4406               94.22
71-4408               94.27
73-101 et seq.        35.02
76-701 - 76-724       93.042
76-704 - 76-724       32.01,
                      90.03
77-1601               35.63
77-1601.02            35.63
77-1606               35.61,
                      35.63
77-1702               35.14
77-2201               31.04
77-2201 - 77-2215     35.04
77-2202               31.04
77-2209               31.04
77-2210               31.04
77-2337               35.08,
                      35.11
77-2341               35.08,
                      35.11
77-2341(1)            35.11
77-2362               35.09
77-2362 - 77-2364     35.09
77-2365.01            35.09,
                      35.10
77-2366               35.09,
                      35.10
77-2386 - 77-2397     35.09
77-3442               35.60 -
                      35.62
77-3442 - 77-3444     35.61
77-3443               35.61
77-3444               35.61
77-27,142 et seq.     35.65
81-145 - 81-162       35.02
81-506                31.07,
                      32.49
81-512                31.07,
                      32.46
81-520.01             95.01
81-829.65             32.61
81-2005               Ch. 70
81-3423               93.012
81-3445               93.012
81-3447               150.75
81-3449               150.75
81-3449(3)            93.012
81-3449(4)            93.012
81-3449(9)            93.012
81-3449(11)           93.012
81-3449(13)           93.012
81-3449(14)           93.012
81-3449 - 81-3453     93.012
81-3453(3)            93.012
81-3453(4)            93.012
81-3453(6)            93.012
81-3453(7)            93.012
81-3453(10)           93.012
81-3453(12)           93.012
81-3453(13)           93.012
81-3453(15)           93.012
81-3541               150.75
84-304                35.03
84-712 et seq.        31.03
84-712                31.04
84-712.01             31.04
84-1201 - 84-1227     31.03
84-1408               33.02
84-1409               33.02
84-1409(1)            33.01
84-1409(2)            33.01
84-1410               33.08
84-1411               33.02,
                      33.04
84-1411(3)            33.07
84-1411(4)            33.05,
                      33.11
84-1412               33.09,
                      33.12
84-1413               33.02
84-1413(1),(4),(5)    33.09
84-1413(2)            33.10
84-1413(3)            33.10
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1979 CODE OF ORDINANCES
1979 Code Section 2004 Code Section
1979 Code Section 2004 Code Section
Ch. 2, § 2       11.02
Ch. 2, § 4       30.09
Ch. 2, § 12      31.12
Ch. 2, § 13      31.10
Ch. 2, § 16      30.08
Ch. 8, § 1       52.01
Ch. 8, § 2       52.20
Ch. 8, § 3       52.21
Ch. 8, § 4       52.22
Ch. 8, § 5       52.23
Ch. 8, § 6       52.24
Ch. 8, § 7       52.25
Ch. 8, § 8       52.26
Ch. 8, § 9       52.27
Ch. 8, § 10      52.28
Ch. 8, § 11      52.29
Ch. 8, § 12      52.30
Ch. 8, § 13      52.02
Ch. 8, § 14      52.03
Ch. 8, § 15      52.04
Ch. 8, § 16      52.45
Ch. 8, § 17      52.46
Ch. 8, § 18      52.47
Ch. 8, § 19      52.08
Ch. 8, § 20      52.05
Ch. 8, § 21      52.06
Ch. 8, § 22      52.07
Ch. 8, § 23      52.31
Ch. 10, part      54.01
Ch. 10, § 1(A)   54.02
Ch. 10, § 1(B)   54.03
Ch. 10, § 1(C)   54.04
Ch. 10, § 1(D)   54.05
Ch. 10, § 1(E)   54.06
Ch. 10, § 4      54.08
Ch. 10, § 5      54.09
Ch. 10, § 6      54.10
Ch. 11, § 1      110.01
Ch. 11, § 2      110.02
Ch. 11, § 3      110.03
Ch. 11, § 4      110.04
Ch. 11, § 5      110.05
Ch. 11, § 7      110.07
Ch. 12            150.04
Ch. 13            150.03
Ch. 15, § 4      133.08
Ch. 15, § 5      133.09
Ch. 15, § 7      93.031
Ch. 15, § 9      131.07
Ch. 17, § 3      93.013
Ch. 17, § 4      93.013
Ch. 17, § 6      93.050
Ch. 17, § 7      72.14
Ch. 17, § 8      93.055
Ch. 18, § 7      93.026
Ch. 18, § 8      93.027
Ch. 18, § 9      93.029
Ch. 18, § 11     93.030
Ch. 18, § 10     93.030
Ch. 18, § 12     93.030
Ch. 19, § 2      93.020
Ch. 19, § 3      93.020
Ch. 19, § 4      93.020
Ch. 19, § 5      93.028
Ch. 20            92.25
Ch. 22, § 1      151.01
Ch. 22, § 2      151.02
Ch. 22, § 3      151.03
Ch. 22, § 4      151.04
Ch. 22, § 5      151.05
Ch. 22, § 6      151.05
Ch. 22, § 7      151.06
Ch. 22, § 8      151.07
Ch. 23, § 4      71.25
Ch. 23, § 5(f)   72.17
Ch. 23, § 6      71.08
Ch. 23, § 9      70.09
Ch. 31, § 1      113.01
Ch. 31, § 2      113.02
Ch. 31, § 3      113.03
Ch. 31, § 4      113.04
Ch. 31, § 5      113.05
Ch. 31, § 6      113.06
Ch. 31, § 8      113.07
Ch. 32, § 1      112.01
Ch. 32, § 2      112.02
Ch. 32, § 3      112.02
Ch. 32, § 4      112.03
Ch. 32, § 5      112.04
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
D-27     3-1-1982    54.11
D-28     6-7-1982    113.04
D-33     2-7-1983    152.46
D-45     - -         72.19
D-50     10-8-1984   54.12
D-51     10-8-1984   110.02
D-57     1-6-1986    54.07
D-58     3-10-1986   51.01 -
                     51.04
B-59     5-7-1964    T.S.O. I
D-59     4-7-1986    T.S.O. I
D-64     8-11-1986   110.02
D-65     8-22-1986   150.04
                     152.01 -
C-67     7-11-1977   152.08,
                     152.25 -
                     152.30
                     152.45,
C-67     7-11-1977   152.46,
                     152.99
C-76     8-7-1978    T.S.O. I
D-76     8-23-1988   113.04
                     53.01,
                     53.03 -
                     53.09,
D-77     10-20-1988  53.25 -
                     53.29,
                     53.31 -
                     53.33
D-78     10-20-1988  53.10
D-82     3-6-1989    T.S.O. I
D-84     5-15-1989   T.S.O. I
D-85     6-12-1989   111.01 -
                     111.07
B-86     10-3-1966   T.S.O. I
D-93     5-7-1990    110.02
D-94     6-25-1990   53.10
D-96     10-29-1990  110.02
D-98     - -         T.S.O. I
D-103    - -1991     94.29,
                     94.30
D-105    - -         T.S.O. I
D-108    6-7-1993    52.60 -
                     52.71
D-109    7-12-1993   32.03
D-110    7-29-1993   152.02
D-117    8-8-1994    93.056
D-121    12-12-1994  31.09
D-130    3-11-1996   52.65
D-140    11-11-1996  150.01
D-142    - -         T.S.O. I
D-143    1-6-1997    113.04
D-144    4-7-1997    113.04
D-152    1-27-1998   T.S.O. I
D-162    10-5-1998   33.03
D-163    10-5-1998   90.12
D-166    12-8-1998   92.35 -
                     92.41
D-167    1-5-1999    11.02
                     70.09 -
                     70.12,
                     71.08 -
D-174    10-5-1999   71.11,
                     71.26 -
                     71.36,
                     71.52,
                     72.18
D-175    8-10-1999   91.01 -
                     91.06
D-176    10-5-1999   130.06,
                     130.07
D-193    4-10-2001   52.24
D-201    2-5-2002    71.02
D-203    6-11-2002   73.01 -
                     73.03
D-204    7-9-2002    71.37
D-206    11-5-2002   153.01,
                     154.01
D-215    12-10-2002  71.32
D-217    2-11-2003   31.12
D-220    1-7-2003    T.S.O. I
D-221    1-7-2003    131.08
D-222    2-11-2003   52.48
D-223    2-11-2003   35.05
D-225    4-8-2003    54.01 -
                     54.06
D-229    5-6-2003    52.30
D-238    8-10-2004   150.01 -
                     150.04
                     36.01 -
                     36.03,
                     36.06,
                     36.07,
                     36.10,
D-239    8-10-2004   36.12 -
                     36.14,
                     36.20,
                     36.23 -
                     36.25,
                     36.60 -
                     36.70
D-248    1-11-2005   36.01,
                     36.14
D-249    1-11-2005   Adopting Ordinance
D-250    6-7-2005    131.05
D-252    9-6-2005    33.03
D-254    1-10-2006   33.03
D-256    5-9-2006    90.20
D-265    10-9-2007   72.20
D-268    9-9-2008    94.25
D-269    9-9-2008    T.S.O. I
D-272    11-11-2008  35.02
D-276    8-11-2009   52.32
D-281    12-7-2010   52.49
D-284(a) 1-10-2012   52.48
D-285    12-6-2011   95.01
D-286    12-6-2011   31.01
D-287    12-6-2011   35.02
D-288    2-7-2012    132.09
D-294    9-18-2012   36.04
D-295    10-9-2012   32.42
D-296    12-11-2012  32.01
D-301    3-11-2014   T.S.O. I
D-303    4-8-2014    T.S.O. I
D-308    4-7-2015    36.14
D-309    5-5-2015    32.04,
                     92.21
D-313    6-7-2016    33.03
D-314    7-12-2016   36.14
D-318    10-11-2016  93.015
D-319    1-19-2017   35.65
D-320    2-7-2017    72.15
D-321    5-9-2017    73.02,
                     73.03
D-323    7-11-2017   151.06
D-325    8-8-2017    53.11
D-327    8-24-2017   93.014
D-333    10-10-2017  53.11
D-334    10-10-2017  150.20
D-336    4-10-2018   53.30
                     32.05,
                     92.24,
D-337    8-7-2018    93.003,
                     93.006,
                     93.056
                     31.09,
D-346    1-7-2020    36.01,
                     36.02
D-347    1-7-2020    133.20,
                     133.21
D-348    2-11-2020   30.07
                     31.10,
D-353    4-6-2021    36.01,
                     36.14
D-354    5-11-2021   32.05
D356     7-6-2021    73.03
D359     10-12-2021  71.38
D367     3-7-2023    50.01 -
                     50.10
D373     10-10-2023  110.02
D376     7-9-2024    32.01
D-379    9-25-2024   33.03
                    
 
