VILLAGE OF MURRAY, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-17 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through    Ordinance No. 687, passed 7-23-24
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
Codification Consultant to
The League of Nebraska Municipalities
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICERS OF
MURRAY, NEBRASKA
2024
Shelli S. Hayes  Clerk/Treasurer
Roger K. Johnson Attorney
Joe Spicciati    Fire Chief
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Jeff Anderson, Board Chairperson
George Blessing
Stan Flak
Zachary Schroeder
Rowdy Woodard
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 349
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF MURRAY, NEBRASKA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF MURRAY, NEBRASKA DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN
SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of Murray,
Nebraska are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affaires; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Nebraska empower and
authorize the Village of Murray to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Village of Murray, Nebraska has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Village of Murray, Nebraska of a general and permanent nature and
publication of such ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRPERSON AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF MURRAY, CASS COUNTY, NEBRASKA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Murray, Nebraska as
revised, annexed, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Murray, Cass County, Nebraska."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
               10. General Provisions
               11. Village Standards
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               30. Board of Trustees
               31. Village Officials
               32. Departments, Boards, and Commissions
               33. Election
               34. Finance and Revenue
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               50. Municipal Utilities
               51. Water
               52. Sewers
               53.   Solid Waste
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70. General Provisions
               71. Traffic Regulations
               72. Parking Regulations
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90. Municipal Leisure and Recreation
               91. Fire Regulations
               92. Health and Safety
               93. Public Ways and Property
               94. Animals
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
               110. Alcoholic Beverages
               111. Business Licensing
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
               130. General Offenses
TITLE XV: LAND USE
               150. Building Regulations
               151. Flood Control
               152. Subdivisions
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
               I. Franchises
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Statutes
References to 1975 Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special right to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees and the Clerk of the
Village of Murray, Cass County, Nebraska is hereby authorized and ordered to
file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations herein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same if properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Murray, Cass County, Nebraska on this 2nd day of May 2000.
   Shelley A. Walker /s/
   Chairperson
ATTEST:
Norma G. Price /s/
Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 502
      An ordinance to revise all the ordinances of the Village of Murray,
Nebraska, to repeal prior ordinances, to require filing, and to provide an
effective date.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CHAIRPERSON AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF MURRAY, NEBRASKA
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Village of Murray, Nebraska, are
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as the "Code of Ordinances
of Murray, Nebraska" consisting of the following Titles and Chapters:
   Chapter
            TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10. General Provisions
      11. Village Standards
            TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30. Board of Trustees
      31. Village Officials
      32. Departments, Boards, and Commissions
      33. Election
      34. Finance and Revenue
      35.   General Provisions
            TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50. Municipal Utilities
      51. Water
      52. Sewers
      53.   Solid Waste
            TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70. General Provisions
      71. Traffic Regulations
      72. Parking Regulations
            TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90. Municipal Leisure and Recreation
      91. Fire Regulations
      92. Health and Safety
      93. Public Ways and Property
      94. Animals
            TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110. Alcoholic Beverages
      111. Business Licensing
      112. Tobacco and Tobacco Products
            TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130. General Offenses
            TITLE XV: LAND USE
      150. Building Regulations
      151. Flood Control
      152. Subdivisions
      153. Zoning
         TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      I. Franchises
      II. Annexations
      III. Vacations
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Statutes
References to 1975 Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
   INDEX
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the code.
All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by the code are
repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions
involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant
to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   Section 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including but not limited to ordinances specified in this section, shall remain
in full force and effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
   1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places.
   2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
   3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to public
use.
   4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
   5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
   7.   Appropriating money.
   8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
   9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   Section 4. At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the Murray Village Clerk and available for inspection by members
of the public during the hours the office is kept open for the ordinary
transaction of business. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinances with the
County Court.
   Section 5. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect from
and after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
   Passed and approved Dec. 15, 2009.
                                 Shelley Lesac /s/
                                 Mayor/Chairperson
(SEAL)
Eileen Murdoch /s/
Clerk/Treasurer
Village of Murray
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
10.01   Title of code
10.02   Interpretation
10.03   Application to future ordinances
10.04   Captions
10.05   Definitions
10.06   Rules of interpretation
10.07   Severability
10.08   Reference to other sections
10.09   Reference to offices
10.10   Errors and omissions
10.11   Official time
10.12   Reasonable time
10.13   Ordinances repealed
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
 
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Murray, Nebraska,
shall be designated as the Code of Murray and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of
the village of Murray.
   CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Cass County, Nebraska.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities, the
public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations. (Neb. RS 49-801(16))
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The state of Nebraska.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The village of Murray,
Nebraska.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of Trustees or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general or permanent nature pertaining to the subjects herein
enumerated and embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances of a general and permanent nature pertaining to
the subjects treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this code, provided that in construing the provisions of this
section, the following ordinances shall not be considered or held to be
ordinances of a general or permanent nature:
      (1)   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys.
      (2)   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
      (3)   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
      (4)   Ordinances granting any right, privilege, franchise, or license to
persons, firms, or corporations.
      (5)   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments
of indebtedness.
      (6)   Ordinances establishing grades.
      (7)   Real estate transactions.
      (8)   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
Cross-reference:
   Code section setting forth state law requirements, see § 30.49
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS
28-1008)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference“ following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records,
       see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the village, as subsequently amended, the former code section
number shall be indicated in the history by “(`75 Code, §      ).”
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this municipal code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles.;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this section,” and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to “sections      to     ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code;
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as “section     ” or “sections      to     ” which are not filled in prior
to adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $500.00. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722) (Am. Ord. 350, passed 6-6-00)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
11.01   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription: “Corporate
Seal, Murray, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the
said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all
other official papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned
by the Municipal Clerk.
(`75 Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
Board of Trustees
30.01   Organization
30.02   Powers
30.03   Village board chairperson; selection and duties
30.04   Elected officials; vacancy
30.05   Standing committees
30.06   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
30.20   Grant of power
30.21   Introduction of ordinances
30.22   Procedure for resolutions and motions
30.23   Style
30.24   Title
30.25   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
30.26   Ordinances; notices; publication
30.27   Certificate of publication or posting
30.28   Effective date; emergency ordinances
30.29   Amendments and revisions
Cross-reference:
   Bonds and oaths applicable to elected officials, see §§
35.30 and
35.31
   Compensation, see §§
35.40 and
35.41
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. Any person who is a
citizen of the United States, a resident of the municipality at the time of his
or her election, and a registered voter may be eligible to be elected to the
Board of Trustees. Every trustee so elected and so qualified shall hold his or
her office for a term of four years, provided that a trustee's term shall
expire and the office will become vacant upon a change of residence from the
municipality. The members of the Board of Trustees shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take an oath to support the constitution of the
United States, and the constitution of the state of Nebraska, and faithfully
and impartially discharge the duties of their office. All trustees elected to
office shall qualify and meet at the first regular meeting of the Board in
December, organize, and appoint the municipal officers required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-204, 32-532) (`75 Code, § 1-102)
§ 30.02 POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its one-mile zoning
jurisdiction; to restrain and prohibit gambling; to provide for licensing and
regulating theatrical and other amusement within the village; to prevent the
introduction and spread of contagious diseases; to establish and regulate
markets; to erect and repair bridges; to erect, repair, and regulate wharves
and the rates of wharfage; to regulate the landing of watercraft; to provide
for the inspection of building materials to be used or offered for sale in the
village to govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the streets and
the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all
excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village; and in addition to
the special powers herein conferred and granted, to maintain the peace, good
government, and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce, and
manufactories; and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon
inhabitants or other persons for violation thereof not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs. Nothing in this division shall be
construed to apply to bingo, lotteries, lotteries by the sale of pickle cards,
or raffles conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska
Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act, the Nebraska
Small Lottery and Raffle Act, or the State Lottery Act.
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within it zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 18-1720) (`75 Code, § 1-103) (Am. Ord. 351, passed 6-6-00; Am.
Ord. 561, passed 2-9-16)
§ 30.03 VILLAGE BOARD CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Village Board Chairperson shall be selected at the first regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees in December by the Board of Trustees from its own
membership. The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Trustees. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Board of Trustees shall elect
one of its own body to occupy the position temporarily who shall hold the title
of Chairperson pro tempore of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson and the
Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same powers and privileges as other
members of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall cause the ordinances of
the Board of Trustees to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants. The Chairperson shall also perform all duties of his or her office
in accordance with the laws of the State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the
Municipality. The qualifications for the Chairperson shall be the same general
qualifications that apply to the members of the Board of Trustees.
(`75 Code, § 1-101) (Am. Ord. 121, passed 12-6-77)
Statutory reference:
   General provisions, Neb. RS 17-202 through 17-210
§ 30.04 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D), vacancies
in municipal elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
of Trustees at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board of Trustees shall at once give public notice
of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within the municipality or by posting in three public places in the
municipality the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board of Trustees or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at
the next regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of
a qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of
the incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board of Trustees shall vote upon the nominee,
and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared
filled. If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination
shall be rejected and the Chairperson shall at the next regular or special
meeting, submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the
vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes,
the Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board of Trustees shall continue to
vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All
members of the Board of Trustees present shall cast a ballot for or against the
nominee. Any member of the Board of Trustees who has been appointed to fill a
vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall have the same rights, including voting,
as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B), call a special
election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
municipal election to fill those vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572, 32-1308) (`75 Code, § 1-104) (Am. Ord. 199,
passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord. 282, passed 12-4-90; Am. Ord. 562, passed 2-9-16)
§ 30.05 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Village Board, the Village
Chairperson shall appoint members of such standing committees as the Village
Board may by ordinance, or resolution, create. The membership of such standing
committees may be changed at any time by the Village Chairperson. The Village
Chairperson shall be a member ex officio of each standing committee. The
members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office of one year,
unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Water
      (2)   Sewer.
      (3)   Streets.
      (4)   Parks.
(`75 Code, § 2-101) (Am. Ord. 369, passed 12-5-00)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of the Board of Trustees, Neb. RS 17-208
§ 30.06 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall take a vote on whether to excuse a
member’s absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Village Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the
next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing
and direct the Village Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
(Ord. 409, passed 4-1-03)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.20 GRANT OF POWER.
   The governing body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state of Nebraska, as may be
expedient for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the
municipality and its trade, commerce, and manufactories.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (`75 Code, § 1-601)
§ 30.21 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the governing body in one of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the governing body, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the
Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (2)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the governing body, shall read aloud the substance of
the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(`75 Code, § 1-602)
§ 30.22 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the governing body. The issue raised by the resolution
or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary
law adopted for the guidance of the governing body. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
(`75 Code, § 1-603)
§ 30.23 STYLE.
   The style of all municipal ordinances shall be:
   “Be it ordained by the Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of
_______________, Nebraska.”
(Neb. RS 17-613) (`75 Code, § 1-604)
§ 30.24 TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (`75 Code, § 1-605)
Statutory reference:
   Additional requirements, Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.25 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless 3/4 of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement. Such
requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for Village Board of Trustees
election districts or wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance,
or any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments
of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(`75 Code, § 1-606) (Am. Ord. 649, passed 2-8-22; Am. Ord. 684, passed 1-9-24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 17-614 and 17-616
§ 30.26 ORDINANCES; NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, or pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (`73 Code, § 1-607) (Am. Ord. 591, passed 6-12-18; Am. Ord.
597, passed 6-12-18; Am. Ord. 650, passed 2-8-22)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency ordinance, Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.27 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and
when and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and
where the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (`75 Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Passage, rules, and regulations, Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.28 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in § 30.46 and division (B) of this section, an
ordinance for the government of the municipality which has been adopted by the
governing body without submission to the voters of the municipality shall not
go into effect until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a 3/4 vote of the governing body, and be entered of
record on the Municipal Clerk's minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (`75 Code, § 1-609)
§ 30.29 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (`75 Code, § 1-610)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
31.01   Appointed officials; appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
31.02   Appointed officials; merger of offices
31.03   Merged municipal clerk-treasurer position created
31.04   Village Clerk
31.05   Village Treasurer
31.06   Municipal Attorney
31.07   Municipal Engineer
31.08   Special Engineer
31.09   Humane Officer
31.10   Code Enforcement Officer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Overseer of the Streets, and Marshal or Chief of Police, and other
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section, the Village Marshal or Chief of
Police or any other police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her
removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
Village Board may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Village Marshal or Chief of Police, in
accordance with the requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal
from duty of an officer by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or
disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a police officer
during his or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of the Streets,
members of the Board of Health, and other appointed officers, except regular
police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials specified in
this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the powers and
duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by village
ordinances and state law.
(`75 Code, § 1-201) (Am. Ord. 454, passed 1-13-04; Am. Ord. 525, passed 1-10-
12)
§ 31.02 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02) (`75 Code, § 1-202) (Am. Ord. 200, passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord.
283, passed 12-4-90; Am. Ord. 651, passed 2-8-22)
Statutory reference:
   Political accountability and disclosure; conflicts of interest, Neb. RS 49-
14,103.01 through 49-14,103.06
§ 31.03 MERGED MUNICIPAL CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the governing
body by §
31.02.
(`75 Code, § 1-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-209.02
§ 31.04 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the Nebraska
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village.
If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.05(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she
shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson's
signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(`75 Code, § 1-204) (Am. Ord. 539, passed 3-11-14; Am. Ord. 625, passed 2-9-21;
Am. Ord. 652, passed 2-8-22)
Statutory reference:
   Duties generally, Neb. RS 17-605
   Publication of official proceedings; fiscal year report, Neb. RS 19-1101 et
seq.
   Penalty for failure to perform duties, Neb. RS 19-1104
   Publication rates, Neb. RS 23-122 and Neb. RS 33-141 through 33-143
   Examination of public records free of charge, Neb. RS 84-712
   Records Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1227
§ 31.05 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying
the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies
of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the
end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of
such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the Village Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or
her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the Board of Trustees, the Mayor may use this failure as cause
to remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(`75 Code, §§ 1-205 and 1-206) (Am. Ord. 379, passed 12-3-02; Am. Ord. 538,
passed 3-11-14; Am. Ord. 626, passed 2-9-21)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory duties, Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609
   Annual report required to be published, Neb. RS 19-1101 and 19- 1103
   Free examination of public records, Neb. RS 84-712
§ 31.06 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality's legal advisor, and as such he
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the governing body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the governing body and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the governing body
will be required to act and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments and documents as to whether or not the document is in legal
and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute
violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the governing
body. Without direction, he or she shall appear and prosecute all cases for
violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to and are
pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do
so by the governing body, the ordinance records and advise and assist the
Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to insure that they will be
valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their passage and approval are
concerned. The governing body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal
Attorney for legal services on such terms as the governing body and the
Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as
may be necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
(`75 Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing and similar provisions, Neb. RS 17-610
§ 31.07 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   The Municipal Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates, and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He/she shall accurately make all plats,
sections and maps as may be necessary under and by the direction of the
governing body. Upon request, he/she shall make estimates of the cost of labor
and material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality,
and make all surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made for the
establishment of grades, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system,
waterworks, power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters
and the improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall
perform such other duties as the governing body may require.
(Neb. RS 17-207, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-913 and 17-919) (Ord. 455, passed 1-13-
04)
§ 31.08 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The governing body may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys
and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by
the governing body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the judgment of the governing body, make estimates of the
costs of labor and material which may be done or furnished by contract with the
municipality and make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary for
the establishment of grades, bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric
light system, waterworks, power plant, public heating system, curbing and
gutters, and the improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings,
and shall perform such other duties as the governing body may require. All
records of the Special Engineer shall be public records which shall belong to
the municipality and shall be turned over to his or her successor.
(Neb. RS 17-568) (`75 Code, § 1-210) (Am. Ord. 455, passed 1-13-04)
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to sewers, Neb. RS 17-919
   Duties related to annexation, Neb. RS 17-405
   Authority to employ special engineers, Neb. RS 17-568
   Duties related to public works, 17-568.01
   Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, Neb. RS 81-3401 through 81-3455
§ 31.09 HUMANE OFFICER.
   There is hereby created the position of Humane Officer. The Humane Officer
shall be appointed, and have his or her compensation set by the Chairperson
with the consent of a majority of the Village Board. The Humane Officer is
charged with the duty of enforcing the animal control ordinances under this
code. The Humane Officer is authorized to issue citations for any violations of
the animal control ordinances under this code.
(Neb. RS 17-604, 28-1008) (Ord. 456, passed 5-12-04)
§ 31.10 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Code Enforcement Officer. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall be appointed, and have his or her compensation
set by the Chairperson with the consent of a majority of the Village Board. The
Code Enforcement Officer shall report directly to the Chairperson and Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer is charged with the duty of maintaining
and properly policing parking and nuisance violations in the Village and shall
have full authority to execute notices of parking and nuisance violations in
the Village.
   (C)   In addition to law enforcement officers, the Code Enforcement Officer
is authorized to issue citations for any violations of the parking and nuisance
ordinances under this code.
(Neb. RS 17-604) (Ord. 457, passed 5-12-04)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
32.01   Planning Commission
32.02   Board of Adjustment
32.03   Board of Health
Utility Departments
32.30   Municipal Water Department; operation and funding
32.31   Municipal Sewer Department; operation and funding
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the approval of a majority
vote of the members elected to the Board. Two of the regular members may be
residents of the area over which the village is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 200
residents in the area over which the village exercises extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a
resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that 200
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three
years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first
commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one- third or
fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for terms of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees,
be removed by the Chairperson of the Board with the consent of a majority vote
of the members elected to the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may, with the approval of
a majority vote of the elected members of the Board, appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the alternate
member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be removed from
office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position
becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Board. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except Mayor, a member of the City Council or
Village Board of Trustees, a member of any community redevelopment authority or
limited community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01, or
a member of any citizen advisory review committee created under Neb. RS 18-
2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Board of Trustees may require
the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment, and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
village, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's
judgment bear relation to the planning of such village and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested village departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Board of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the Board of Trustees has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Board of Trustees has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the village;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Board of
Trustees has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally
authorized the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the
standards and procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and
judiciously granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting
of a conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property
owners to put their property to a special use if it is among those uses
specifically identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses
which may require special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners
before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Board of Trustees
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Board may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Board regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
(Am. Ord. 496, passed 12-9-08; Am. Ord. 595, passed 6-12-18; Am. Ord. 627,
passed 2-9-21)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.02 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Trustees shall serve as the Board of Adjustment for the
village.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 19-911
§ 32.03 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of three members. The members of the Board shall include the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees, who shall serve as Chairperson, and two other members. One
member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found who is
willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed, shall
be the Board's medical advisor. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed or unless removed
by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees. The members of the Board shall reorganize at the first meeting in
December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the governing body from time to time out of the general fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the governing body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and regulations and provide
fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress,
and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state of
Nebraska and ordinances of the municipality relating to nuisances and to
matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The
Board shall regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the governing
body may direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the governing body may, from time
to time, designate.
UTILITY DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.30 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the water department through the
governing body or its authorized agent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the water
department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the taxable value of all the taxable property within the
corporate limits. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the water fund and
shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing body or
its authorized agent shall have the direct management and control of the water
department. The governing body shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the water department.
The governing body shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
ordinance or resolution and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS. 17-531, 17-534, 19-305) (`73 Code, § 3-101) (Am. Ord. 371A, passed 9-
3-02)
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks acquisition and construction authorized, Neb. RS 17-531
   Bonds, interest, and taxing authority, Neb. RS 17-534
   Public utility extension and improvements, Neb. RS 19-1305
Cross-reference:
   Water regulations, see
Chapter 51
§ 32.31 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the governing body or its authorized agent.
   (B)   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, and maintenance of the municipal sewer department, may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all the taxable property within the corporate limits. The
revenue from the tax shall be known as the sewer fund and shall remain in the
custody of the Municipal Treasurer.
   (C)   The governing body or its authorized agent shall have the direct
management and control of the sewer department. The governing body shall have
the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the sewer department. The governing body shall set the rates to
be charged for services rendered by ordinance or resolution and shall file a
copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-149, 17-925.01) (`73 Code, § 3-201) (Am. Ord. 377, passed 11-12-02)
Statutory reference:
   Taxing authority, Neb. RS 17-925.01
Cross-reference:
   Sewer regulations, see
Chapter 52
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
33.01   Generally
33.02   Election of officers; certifications required
33.03   Board of trustees; terms; qualifications
33.04   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
33.05   Exit polls; poll watchers
33.06   Notice
33.07   Special elections
33.08   Filing fee
33.09   Caucus candidates
33.10   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
33.11   Registered voters; qualifications
33.12   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
33.13   Reserved
33.14   Recall procedure
33.15   Tie votes
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
   (B)   When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act. Any other election held by the municipality shall be held
as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code,
or bylaws of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 32-404, 32-556) (`75 Code, § 1-701) (Am. Ord. 466, passed 12-14-04)
Statutory reference:
   Statewide primary election, Neb. RS 32-401
   Statewide general election, Neb. RS 32-404
   Conformance to Election Act, Neb. RS 32-404(1)
   Notice, publication, and printing of ballots, Neb. RS 32-801 through 32-822
   Election costs, Neb. RS 32-1201 through 32-1208
§ 33.02 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the Village, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Neb. RS 32-404) (Am. Ord. 353, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 466, passed 12-14-04)
§ 33.03 BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
municipality at large.
   (B)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the
statewide general election as provided in Neb. RS 17-202 and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each trustee shall
be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 32-532, 32-554) (`75 Code, § 1-711) (Ord. 201, passed 10-2-84)
Statutory reference:
   Election; qualification generally, Neb. RS 17-201 et seq.
§ 33.04 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective municipal offices shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the governing body provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination
and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than
60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 33.05 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter's ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker's duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) (Am. Ord. 642, passed 2-9-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.06 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk no less than 40 days prior to an election shall serve as the
notice requirement for all municipal elections which are held in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(`75 Code, § 1-702) (Am. Ord. 108, passed 3-1-77)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of election requirements, Neb. RS 32-802
§ 33.07 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)    Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be
submitted to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall
be certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
on or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Village Board. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   If the village has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) of this section may cancel the special election if the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a
resolution adopted by the political subdivision canceling the special election
on or before the fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall
be effective after such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner,
the village shall be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the
canceled election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in
section Neb. RS 32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   If the village has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2) of
this section may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405) (Am. Ord. 448, passed 1-13-04; Am. Ord. 628, passed 2-9-21;
Am. Ord. 675, passed 2-14-23)
§ 33.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)    Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate
for village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
general fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1 % of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608) (Am. Ord. 551, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 653, passed 2-8-22)
§ 33.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The governing body may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose of
nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the Village election. Such
caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for such
election, and the governing body shall publish notice of such caucus in at
least one newspaper of general circulation in the county at least once each
week for two consecutive weeks before such caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify in writing the Municipal Clerk of the candidates so nominated, not later
than two days following the caucus. The Municipal Clerk shall then notify the
persons so nominated of their nomination, such notification to take place not
later than five days after such caucus. A candidate so nominated shall not have
his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the
holding of such caucus, he or she files with the Municipal Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if
any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
(`75 Code, § 1-707)
§ 33.10 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710. (Neb. RS
32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and
petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to
Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the
general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20 % of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(`75 Code, § 1-704) (Am. Ord. 201, passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord. 410, passed 4-1-03;
Am. Ord. 527, passed 1-10-12; Am. Ord. 550, passed 4- 14-15; Am. Ord. 579,
passed 3-14-17; Am. Ord. 607, passed 1-14-20)
§ 33.11 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, REGISTERED VOTER shall mean an elector,
as defined by state law, who has a current voter registration record on file
with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
municipality on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all
municipal elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602) (`75 Code, § 1-705)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, Neb. RS 32-110
§ 33.12 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)    Any candidate may place his or her name on the general election
ballot by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State
as provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of an elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and July 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No incumbent
who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or her term
shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All other
candidates shall file for office between January 5 and August 1 prior to the
date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
(Ord. 514, passed 4-12-11; Am. Ord. 526, passed 1-10-12; Am. Ord. 654, passed
2-8-22)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 33.13 RESERVED.
§ 33.14 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk. (Neb. RS 32-
1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees, and any other elected official of the
village may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the Board of Trustees who are elected by
ward. Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition
or vote at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the
member's ward. When a member of the Board of Trustees is nominated by ward in
the primary election and elected at large in the general election, the recall
provisions shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the Board of Trustees, or any other elected official be submitted to
the registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to
at least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general
election, except that for Board of Trustees office for which more than one
candidate is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in
number to at least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the
most votes for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall
be affixed to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official's usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
official sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-
505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of
the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the
official's usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to
the official's last-known address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) of this section,
order an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date
that complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the election
commissioner or county clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board of Trustees shall provide for the holding of the
recall election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board of Trustees may cancel the recall election if the Board of
Trustees notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation
on or before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall
election shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees or any other governing body at one time due to
the recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within 6 months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
(`75 Code, §§ 1-709 and 1-710) (Ord. 134, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord. 201, passed
10-2-84; Am. Ord. 340, passed 6-9-99; Am. Ord. 412, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord.
449, passed 1-13-04; Am. Ord. 499, passed 7- 14-09; Am. Ord. 528, passed 1-10-
12; Am. Ord. 608, passed 1-14-20; Am. Ord. 629, passed 2-9-21; Am. Ord. 675,
passed 2-14-23)
§ 33.15 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall notify such
candidates by certified mail to appear at his or her office on a given day and
hour to determine the same before the canvassing board, and the certificate of
nomination or election shall be delivered accordingly.
(Neb. RS 32-1122)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
34.01   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
34.02   Annual audit; financial statements
34.03   Claims
34.04   Warrants
34.05   Expenditures
34.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
34.07   Special assessment fund
34.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
34.09   Deposit of funds
34.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
34.11   Bond issues
34.12   Motor vehicle fee
34.13   Investment of funds
34.14   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
34.15   Credit cards; authority to accept
34.16   Levies authorized
Annual Budget
34.30   Fiscal year
34.31   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
34.32   Relating to proposed budget statements; contents; availability and
correction
34.33   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
34.34   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
34.35   Definitions
34.36   Budget procedure
34.37   Appropriation bill
34.38   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
34.39   Revision of budget
Tax Levies
34.60   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
34.61   Property tax; certification of amount
34.62   Relating to property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
34.63   Property tax request; procedure for setting
34.64   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
Sales and Use Tax
34.70   Tax of 1% imposed
34.71   Administration to be as provided by state law
34.72   Use of proceeds
34.73   Certification
34.74   Term of tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
governing body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross
annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the municipality. In case of a public emergency
resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms,
floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious
injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by
Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the governing body and
entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the municipality, the governing
body or Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of
those materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when
it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body or
Board of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
      PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756) (`75 Code, § 1-809) (Am. Ord. 135, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord.
184, passed 4-3-84; Am. Ord. 497, passed 7-14-09; Am. Ord. 590, passed 6-12-18)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of division (A) the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village;
      ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of such annual report; and
      FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
municipal fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for such preceding fiscal
year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. Such audit shall be completed and the annual audit
report made by such accountant shall be submitted within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS
84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise
which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have
that phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other
functions of the village. The result of such audit shall appear separately in
the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit
shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, such report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS13-606 )
(`75 Code, § 1-810) (Am. Ord. 110, passed 3-1-77; Am. Ord. 123, passed 12-6-77;
Am. Ord. 203, passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord. 418, passed 4- 1-03)
Statutory reference:
   State municipal auditing regulations; similar provisions, Neb. RS 19-2901
through 19-2909
§ 34.03 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the governing body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the governing body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the municipal treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn, provided that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn.
(`75 Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, Neb. RS 17-714 and 17-715
§ 34.04 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasury must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Board and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the
particular fund to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is
payable, and the purpose of the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid
than upon warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in
the adopted budget statement for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the
amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711) (`75 Code, § 1-812)
§ 34.05 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or
draw any order or warrant on the municipal treasury for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No expenditure for any improvement to be paid for out of the general
fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one year the amount provided for
that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(`75 Code, § 1-808)
§ 34.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and perform all other necessary functions related
thereto including foreclosure.
   (B)   If the municipality elects to collect its special assessments, notice
that special assessments are due shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to the
last known address of the person against whom such special assessments are
assessed or to the lending institution or other party responsible for paying
such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice shall not relieve the
taxpayer from any liability to pay such special assessments and any interest or
penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A municipality that elects to collect its special assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
§ 34.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for
any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710) (`75 Code, § 1-814)
§ 34.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or
more of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this
section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated
shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors in office, who shall
become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In
the event of a donation of real estate, the Board of Trustees may manage such
real estate as in the case of real estate donated to the village for village
library purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums, or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default in
the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years
prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the submission
of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in
division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the proposition, shall be published in its
entirety three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper
is in or of general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such
sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a
majority or more of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the
proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment
of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax
shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be
established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall
immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the
manner prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in Neb. RS 17-540. Whenever investments of such sinking
fund or funds are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same
shall be reported to the Board of Trustees, and the investment report shall be
made a matter of record by the Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Board of
Trustees. The sinking fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions
of this section, shall constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or
purposes for which the same was authorized and shall not be used for any other
purpose unless authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village
voting at a general election favoring such change in the use of the sinking
fund or sinking funds. The question of the change in the use of the sinking
fund or sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in
substance for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
(`75 Code, § 1-815) (Am. Ord. 609, passed 1-14-20)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 34.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as Village Treasurer.
These deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or giving of security. The Village
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by such corporation,
and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or other
security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607, 77-2362)
(`75 Code, § 1-817) (Am. Ord. 383, passed 12-3-02; Am. Ord. 417, passed 4-1-03;
Am. Ord. 450, passed 1-13-04)
Statutory reference:
   Deposits of public funds regulated, Neb. RS 77-2362 through 77-2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, Neb. RS 77-2386 through 77-2397
§ 34.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the State of Nebraska to the extent that such
certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the
amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the same manner as is
provided for cities of the first class in Neb. RS 16-714 to 16- 716. Neb. RS
77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial institutions. Neb.
RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual financial
institutions.
(Ref. 17-720 RS Neb.) (Am. Ord. 384, passed 12-3-02)
§ 34.11 BOND ISSUES.
   The governing body may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The governing body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(`75 Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Boundary bridge bonds, Neb. RS 39-835 through 39-842.01
   Cemetery bonds, Neb. RS 17-939
   Cold storage plant bonds, Neb. RS 17-958
   Compromise of indebtedness, Neb. RS 10-301 through 10-305
   Dikes, Neb. RS 17-529.01
   Flood control project bonds, Neb. RS 17-529.08
   Funding and refunding bonds, Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-614
   General provisions, Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
   Internal improvement bonds, Neb. RS 10-401 through 10-411
   Joint power plant bonds, Neb. RS 17-911
   Library bonds, Neb. RS 17-968
   Medical and multiunit facility bonds, Neb. RS 23-3513
   Municipal cemetery; issuance of bonds, Neb. RS 12-1001 through 12-1004 and
RS 17-939
   Power plant bonds, Neb. RS 17-908
   Uniform registration and cancellation of bonds, Neb. RS 10-201 through 10-
209
   Utilities bonds, Neb. RS 17-905
   Waterworks bonds, Neb. RS 17-534
§ 34.12 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section,
the governing body of the village shall have power to require any individual
whose primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within
the limits of the village and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within
such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of
such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may
be provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and
Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a post- secondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle's situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the road fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214) (`75 Code, § 1-820) (Am. Ord. 258, passed 3-7-89; Am. Ord.
531, passed 2-12-13; Am. Ord. 630, passed 2-9-21)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 34.13 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a municipality has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of
its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its
bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay
the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the governing body may invest any such surplus in certificates of
deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the state investment
officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date the
investment is made.
(Neb. RS 77-2341(1)) (`75 Code, § 1-818)
Statutory reference:
   Investment in bonds, Neb. RS 17-608 and 17-609
   Investment in cooperative credit associations, Neb. RS 21-1316.01
§ 34.14 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623) (Am. Ord. 631, passed 2-9-21)
§ 34.15 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The governing body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards as a method of cash payment of any tax,
levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license, fee, or
assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as provided
by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card shall be
collected by the municipal official.
   (C)   The governing body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards as a means of cash payment to any facility it operates in a
proprietary capacity and may adjust the price for services to reflect the
handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The governing body may choose to accept the types of credit cards,
charge cards, or debit cards accepted by and the services provided to the state
pursuant to the contract entered into by the state with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those political subdivisions that choose to
participate in the state contract. The governing body may choose not to
participate in the state contract and may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the governing body shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge
card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality. The surcharge or convenience
fee shall be applied only when allowed by the operating rules and regulations
of the credit card or charge card involved or when authorized in writing by the
credit card or charge card company involved. When a person elects to make a
payment to the municipality by credit card or charge card and such a surcharge
or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of such surcharge or convenience fee
shall be deemed voluntary by such person and shall be in no case refundable.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
§ 34.16 LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The village shall have power to raise revenue by levying and
collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the
village and regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant
to this section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of
space, or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax, except that
no occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602,
or 77-4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704.24. The occupation
tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208, except that
Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax subject to Neb. RS 86-704.
All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon which they are
imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments shall be
exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical entertainments
given exclusively by the citizens of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company, or association, doing business in the village, for the
use, support, and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized
under the laws of the state regulating the same. The Village Clerk shall
collect with diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the
tax the Clerk shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the Village Treasurer who
shall credit the same to a fund to be known as special occupation tax fund for
benefit of the Volunteer Fire Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief
of the Fire Department and allowed by the Board of Trustees, the Treasurer
shall pay over the proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to time for the
use of the Fire Department, as hereinbefore provided.
(Neb. RS 35-106)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain such license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
(Ord. 533, passed 2-2-13; Am. Ord. 554, passed 4-14-15)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.30 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701) (`75 Code, § 1-801)
§ 34.31 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the Board of
Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the
village. Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the expenditures
shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the
last budget in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial
period. The expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each
individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures
beyond the amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
Board of Trustees in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this
section shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or
purpose as provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section
shall be construed to authorize expenditures by the village in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02) (Am. Ord. 544, passed 3-11-14)
§ 34.32 RELATING TO PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENTS; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY AND
CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.33. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
(`75 Code, § 1-802) (Am. Ord. 202, passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord. 373, passed 11-12-
02; Am. Ord. 413, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 545, passed 3- 11-14; Am. Ord. 675,
passed 2-14-23)
§ 34.33 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)    The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustees' principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year's budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in §
34.39. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
(`75 Code, § 1-803) (Am. Ord. 414, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 541, passed 3-11-14;
Am. Ord. 592, passed 6-12-18; Am. Ord. 632, passed 2-9-21; Am. Ord. 675, passed
2-14-23)
§ 34.34 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters of the political
subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this division,
the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance
for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under Neb. RS 13-505.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508) (`75 Code, § 1-804) (Am. Ord. 122, passed 12-6-77; Am. Ord.
542, passed 3-11-14; Am. Ord. 593, passed 6-12-18; Am. Ord. 655, passed 2-8-22;
Am. Ord. 675, passed 2-14-23)
§ 34.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the village that provides for a biennial period
to determine and carry on the village's financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the village in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the village from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503) (Am. Ord. 543, passed 3-11-14)
§ 34.36 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(`75 Code, § 1-805)
§ 34.37 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The governing body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-706) (`75 Code, § 1-806)
§ 34.38 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village's general fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village's general fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board's jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board's jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the (Council/Board)' s jurisdiction or by
mailing to each resident within the Board's jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board's jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board's jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the village shall be shown as a source of revenue in the village budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
(Am. Ord. 656, passed 2-8-22)
§ 34.39 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Village Board of Trustees
may propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct
a public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-158 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Board of Trustee's jurisdiction. This published notice
shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
of Trustees shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which
the Board of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a
copy of the revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget.
These warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid
during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by
the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board of Trustees shall correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
Board of Trustee is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Board
of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Ord. 357, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 385, passed 12-3-02; Am. Ord. 415, passed 4-
1-03; Am. Ord. 565, passed 4-12-16)
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.60 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The governing body has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   (1)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a
single amount for general fund purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
      (2)   The governing body shall allocate the amount raised by the all-
purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality in its annual
budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the governing
body deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
§ 34.61 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The governing body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Neb. RS 17-702) (`75 Code, § 1-807)
§ 34.62 RELATING TO PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The village may levy
a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to
the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which
require or obligate the village to pay that judgment, to the extent the
judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division
(A). The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include
all other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C).
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
village levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation shall
not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision's governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the Board of Trustees and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) for a period
of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after notice
is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at least 20
days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters residing in
the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action to exceed
the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of the registered
voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are present at the
meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the secrecy of the
ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote in
favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that action shall be
forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the County Board shall
authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year. If a majority of
the registered voters present at the meeting vote against exceeding the limits,
the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall have no power to call for
an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the Board of Trustees
and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
(Am. Ord. 355, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 416, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 657, passed
2-8-22; Am. Ord. 675, passed 2-14-23)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444
§ 34.63 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)    If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year's rate of levy, the village's property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village's rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) of this section. If the Board of Trustees seek to set
its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in
the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) of this section and by passing a
resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section. If any
county, city, school district, or community college seeks to increase its
property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such
political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year's rate of levy, the village's property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the village's rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If the Board of
Trustees seek to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by
law after holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this section
and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) of
this section. If any county, city, school district, or community college seeks
to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of
Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) of this
section.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. If the village's total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee's principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13- 509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year's
tax request if applied to the current year's valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village's property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village's property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by ___ percent;
          (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The Village of Murray, Nebraska proposes to adopt a property tax
request that will cause its tax rate to be $___ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the Village of Murray, Nebraska will
exceed last year's by ___ percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(Am. Ord. 356, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 610, passed 1-14-20; Am. Ord. 658,
passed 2-8-22; Am. Ord. 684, passed 1-9-24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 77-1632
§ 34.64 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOW ABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision's principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated representative
of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision's budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name Village of Murray;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by ___ percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $ ___ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The Village of Murray proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of the Village of Murray will exceed
last year's by ___ percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the Village of Murray at (402) 235-
2119, murrayclerk@murrayvillage.com.
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county's website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 10,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
of this section to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall
notify the County Assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing no later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each
participating political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the
joint public hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required
to be included on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) of this section to
a printing service designated by the County Board. The initial cost for
printing the postcards shall be paid from the county general fund. Such
postcards shall be mailed at least seven calendar days before the joint public
hearing. The cost of creating and mailing the postcards, including staff time,
materials, and postage, shall be charged proportionately to the political
subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing based on the total
number of parcels in each participating political subdivision. Each
participating political subdivision shall also maintain a prominently displayed
and easily accessible link on the home page of the political subdivision's
website to the political subdivision's proposed budget, except that this
requirement shall not apply if the political subdivision is a county with a
population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a city with a population of less
than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for joint public hearings prior to January 1, 2024,
a school district.
      (9)   The postcard sent under this division and the notice posted on the
county's website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) of this section, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision's property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(9)(a) of this section;
         (c)   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in ___ (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR
PROPERTY MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on
your property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are
calculated on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The
actual tax on your property may vary from these estimates;
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property's assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property's assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) of this
section, the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall
pass an ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision's property
tax request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax
request over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess
of the allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by ___ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision) will
exceed last year's by ___ percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include:
      (1)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
      (2)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
      (3)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
      (4)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
      (5)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
      (6)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint public
hearing.
      (7)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Ord. 675, passed 2-14-23; Am. Ord. 684, passed 1-9-24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 77-1633
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 34.70 TAX OF 1% IMPOSED.
   Pursuant to the approval of the electors of the Village of Murray, Nebraska,
at the General Election held on November 6, 2012, pursuant to the Nebraska
Local Option Revenue Act, the Village of Murray does hereby impose a sales and
use tax of 1% upon the same transactions within the Village of Murray on which
the State of Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the Nebraska
Revenue Act of 1967, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 530, passed 11-13-12)
§ 34.71 ADMINISTRATION TO BE AS PROVIDED BY STATE LAW.
   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this ordinance,
including the ascertainment, assessment, collection, distribution and making of
returns for said tax, shall be by the Nebraska Tax Commissioner pursuant to
Neb. RS 77-17,143.
(Ord. 530, passed 11-13-12)
§ 34.72 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of the sales and use taxes imposed by §
34.70 shall be used for the purpose of establishing a Village Capital
Improvement Fund to assist in the replacement and repair of bridges, streets
and sidewalks, parks infrastructure consisting of water and waste water mains
and lines, water source development, water wells and storage, miscellaneous
public infrastructure improvements and public lighting of streets and highways
within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 530, passed 11-13-12)
§ 34.73 CERTIFICATION.
   A certified copy of the election results showing approval by the voters of
the local option revenue tax and a certified map of the Village of Murray
clearly showing the boundaries of said village, incorporated by reference
herein, was filed with the Tax Commissioner on or before December 2, 2012.
(Ord. 530, passed 11-13-12)
§ 34.74 TERM OF TAX.
   The sales and use tax imposed by §
34.70 shall become effective April 1, 2013, and shall continue in perpetuity
unless repealed by the Board of Trustees or by the voters of the Village of
Murray.
(Ord. 530, passed 11-13-12)
CHAPTER 35: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
35.01   Definitions
35.02   Meetings to be open to public; notice; agenda
35.03   Videoconferencing
35.04   Closed sessions
35.05   Emergency meetings
35.06   Minutes
35.07   Votes
35.08   Notice to news media
35.09   Public participation
35.10   Change in office
35.11   Reorganizational meeting
35.12   Meetings; quorum
35.13   Special meetings
35.14   Teleconferencing
35.15   Prohibited acts; exempt events
Bonds and Oaths
35.30   Bonds; requirements
35.31   Oath of office; municipal officials
Compensation
35.40   Municipal officials; compensation
35.41   Conflict of interest
MEETINGS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(2)) (`75 Code, § 1-501)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The governing body of the municipality;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
constitution, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies
unless a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless
such subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action
on behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(1)) (`75 Code, § 1-502)
§ 35.02 MEETINGS TO BE OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   (1) The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
      (2)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the governing body usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice required by this section designates
some other public building or other specified place.
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and
to the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body's jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper's website; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
   (C)   The minutes of the Municipal Clerk shall include the record of the
manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a
statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was
communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings, the names of each
member of the governing body present or absent at each convened meeting, and
the substance of all matters discussed. The minutes of the governing body shall
be a public record open to inspection by the public upon request at any
reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(`75 Code, § 1-503) (Am. Ord. 182, passed 4-3-84; Am. Ord. 247, passed 3-1-88;
Am. Ord. 633, passed 2-9-21)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings required to be public, Neb. RS 84-1408
   Definitions, Neb. RS 84-1409
   Notice, agenda, and the like, Neb. RS 84-1411
   Minutes, roll call, secret ballot, Neb. RS 84-1413
Cross-reference:
   Official actions; votes, § 30.21
§ 35.03 VIDEOCONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, the Joint Public Agency Act, or the Municipal Cooperative Financing Act,
of the governing body of public power district having a chartered territory of
more than 50 counties in this state, or of the governing body of a risk
management pool or its advisory committees organized in accordance with the
Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by means of videoconferencing
if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public's right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such
as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided
if videoconferencing was not used;
      (3)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the videoconference;
      (4)   At least one member of the governing body or advisory committee is
present at each site of the videoconference; and
      (5)   No more than one-half of the governing body's or advisory
committee's meetings in a calendar year are held by videoconference.
   (B)   Videoconferencing or conferencing by other electronic communication
shall not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes
established in the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies.
      VIDEOCONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at two or
more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations.
(Neb. RS 84-1409) (Am. Ord. 352, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 464, passed 12-14-04)
§ 35.04 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of
this section.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
      (1)   The protection of the public interest or
      (2)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Ref. 84-1410 RS Neb.) (`75 Code, § 1-504) (Am. Ord. 182, passed 4-3-84; Am.
Ord. 465, passed 12-14-04)
§ 35.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
35.08 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(4)) (`75 Code, § 1-505) (Am. Ord. 182, passed 4-3-84)
§ 35.06 MINUTES.
   (A)    Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
(`75 Code, § 1-506) (Am. Ord. 675, passed 2-14-23)
Statutory reference:
   Rights of the public, Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 35.07 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the governing body to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(2))
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(3)) (`75 Code, § 1-507)
Statutory reference:
   Voting procedure generally, Neb. RS 17-616
§ 35.08 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary,
or other designee of each public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(3)) (`75 Code, § 1-508)
§ 35.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)    Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1410, may be videotaped, televised, photographed,
broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder,
a camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic
reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held
by virtual conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak
at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information. (Neb. RS 84-1412)
(`75 Code, § 1-509) (Am. Ord. 381, passed 12-3-02; Am. Ord. 500, passed 7-14-
09; Am. Ord. 659, passed 2-8-22)
§ 35.10 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall meet at the regular meeting of
the Board in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and
outgoing members of the Board of Trustees shall present their reports, and upon
the outgoing Board having completed its business, the outgoing trustees shall
surrender their offices to the incoming trustees, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his successor in office all property,
records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
Statutory reference:
   Oath; meetings generally, Neb. RS 17-204
§ 35.11 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Board of Trustees shall convene at the regular place
of meeting at the first regular meeting of the Board in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to
order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly
and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as
are required.
   (B)   After ascertaining that all trustees and officers are duly qualified,
the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled as
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall then nominate his
or her candidates for appointive offices, and said officers shall hold office
until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Chairperson shall
then proceed with the regular order of business.
   (C)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the Board or of
its successors in office and of each officer hereafter elected to any office,
to qualify prior to the first regular meeting of the Board in December
following his or her election. Immediately upon the assembly of the newly
elected Board upon the first regular meeting in December following the
election, each officer elected at the general election shall take possession of
his office. Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required bond, approved by the Board of Trustees, in the office
of the Municipal Clerk within two weeks from the date of his or her said
appointment, provided that on said bond shall be endorsed the same oath as
required of a trustee. Failure to qualify by elective or appointive officers
within the time and manner provided in this section shall and does in itself
create a vacancy in the office to which said person failing to qualify shall
have been elected or appointed.
(`75 Code, § 1-512)
Statutory reference:
   Oath; meetings generally, Neb. RS 17-204
§ 35.12 MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The meetings of the governing body shall be held at the Murray
Municipal Building. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   A second monthly meeting will be held on the 4th Tuesday of the month
as necessary at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (C)   At all meetings of the Board of Trustees a majority of the Board shall
constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may adjourn from day to
day and compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is
present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
   (D)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum if present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson,
if present. In the absence of the Chairperson, the members of the Board of
Trustees shall elect a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the
powers and perform the same duties as the regular Village Chairperson
(Neb. RS 17-204, 17-205, 17-210).
(`75 Code, § 1-510) (Am. Ord. 183, passed 4-3-84; Am. Ord. 444, passed 11-4-03)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum; compulsory attendance, Neb. RS 17-205
§ 35.13 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or by three members
of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the Board
in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall
notify the members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the
time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a member
of the Board known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present.
   (C)   All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall comply with
procedures set forth in §§
30.20 et seq.
(`75 Code, § 1-510) (Am. Ord. 183, passed 4-3-84)
§ 35.14 TELECONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of an entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, or the Municipal
Cooperative Financing Act, of the governing body of a public power district
having a chartered territory of more than 50 counties in this state, or of the
governing body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees organized
in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by
telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity's or pool's
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public's right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity's or pool's meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls,
emails, faxes, or other electronic communication shall not be used to
circumvent any of the public government purposes established in the Open
Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Ord. 352, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 371, passed 11- 12-02; Am.
Ord. 467, passed 12-14-04)
§ 35.15 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this article or the Open Meetings
Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social gathering,
email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (Ord. 465, passed 12-14-04)
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 35.30 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed in the
Village Clerk's office within the following time:
      (1)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their appointment;
and
      (2)   Of elected village officers, within 30 days after the canvass of
the votes of the election at which they were chosen.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least 2 sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within 10 days
of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before the
date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be
in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond within
the required time and sufficient cause is not shown within that time, his or
her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such vacancy shall
thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the law may
direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses, or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal, or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
(`75 Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds generally and similar provisions, Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118
   Power to regulate offices, Neb. RS 17-604
§ 35.31 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed,
except when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before
entering upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath,
which shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I,                                              , do solemnly swear that
I will support the constitution of the United States and the constitution of
the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely
and without mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of,
                          , according to law and to the best of my ability. And
I do further swear that I do not advocate nor am I a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed in the office of the Secretary of State or with the Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101) (`75 Code, § 1-302)
COMPENSATION
§ 35.40 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall
not be increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have
been elected except when there has been a merger of offices, provided that the
compensation of the members of the governing body, a board, or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member,
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she resigns and
desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or she may be
rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at a greater
salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the governing body and will
be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(`75 Code, § 1-901)
   (B)   The Local Government Miscellaneous Expenditure Act provides that local
units of government may approve mileage at the rate allowed by Neb. RS 81-1176.
Mileage will be allowed as authorized by Neb. RS 81-1176 as set by the
Department of Administrative Services.
(Am. Ord. 441, passed 10-7-03)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation for merged offices, Neb. RS 17-209.02
   Compensation of elected offices regulated, Neb. RS 17-612
§ 35.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has the right
to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and all or any
part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions called pursuant
to Neb. RS 84-1410, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or
recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera,
video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in
writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held
by virtual conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak
at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information. (Neb. RS 84-1412)
(`75 Code, § 1-509) (Am. Ord. 381, passed 12-3-02; Am. Ord. 500, passed 7-14-
09; Am. Ord. 659, passed 2-8-22)
Statutory reference:
   Private gain by public officers, Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
   Penalty for violation, Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
   Utility officers permitted to serve in elected office, Neb. RS 70-624.04
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Section
50.01   Utility bills; collection
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
50.05   Lien
50.06   Denial of utility service; when prohibited
§ 50.01 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges for water and sewer service shall be billed jointly on a
monthly basis, calculated during the last week of the month. Utility bills
shall be mailed during the last week of each month and shall be due upon
receipt and payable by the tenth day of each month. Bills paid after the tenth
day of each month shall have a penalty charge added thereto in an amount set by
fee ordinance of the governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk.
   (B)   Utility bill payments will be considered delinquent if not paid by the
end of the first scheduled work day after the tenth of each month. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the utility department may
discontinue service pursuant to §
50.02. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
in full of all delinquent charges and upon further payment of a reconnection
fee in an amount set by fee ordinance of the governing body and on file in the
office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   The municipality may also take any action authorized by law to effect
collection of the delinquent charges. If a disconnection is made, reconnection
may be made during regular working hours, upon payment of the account in full,
plus a reconnection charge in an amount set by fee ordinance of the governing
body and on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any payments made to the
governing body which are returned by a bank for insufficient funds shall
immediately place the account of the customer in delinquency and a returned
check fee will be assessed in an amount set by fee ordinance of the governing
body and on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (D)   Regarding temporary absences of residents for any reason, including
but not limited to vacations, temporary closure, or wintering in a warmer
climate, no utility account shall be deemed "inactive" unless water service is
discontinued at the curb stop by maintenance personnel. The reconnection fee
will not apply to reconnecting a temporary service by request of the resident.
(`75 Code, § 3-111) (Am. Ord. 176, passed 7-5-83; Am. Ord. 223, passed 12-3-85;
Am. Ord. 378, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 489, passed 5-8-07; Am. Ord. 603,
passed 6-11-19; Am. Ord. 686, passed 7-23-24)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to set rates, Neb. RS 17-542
   Taxing authority, Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall not discontinue utility service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the municipality first
gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination, weekends and holidays
excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare
recipient to the municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services,
such notice shall be by certified mail, and notice of such proposed termination
shall be given to the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by
the municipality, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the governing body. The governing body has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Municipal Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full. A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any
domestic subscriber. The governing body shall notify the domestic subscriber of
the time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(`75 Code, § 3-601) (Ord. 137, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord. 166, passed 11-1-82;
Am. Ord. 207, passed 10-2-84)
Statutory reference:
   Utility discontinuance regulated, Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering
the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of the
Municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
to 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02 RS Neb.)
(`75 Code, § 3-602) (Ord. 186, passed 4-3-84; Am. Ord. 419, passed 4-1-03)
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts:
         (a)   Bypassing,
         (b)   Tampering, or
         (c)   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
The municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this section
against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under subdivision (2)(a) or (b), the
municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-
1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276 )
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist. (Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
(Am. Ord. 420, passed 4-1-03)
§ 50.05 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in
writing or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 30 days or more delinquent in the
payment of the utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities
service together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined and, if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the
Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(`75 Code, §§ 3-112 and 3-217) (Am. Ord. 407, passed 4-1-03)
Statutory reference:
   Lien authorized for water and sewer delinquency, Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-
925.01
   Assessments authorized, Neb. RS 18-503
§ 50.06 DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601) (Ord. 341, passed 6-9-99)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
51.01   Definitions
51.02   Consumer's application
51.03   No service to nonresidents
51.04   Water contract; service lines
51.05   Installation procedure
51.06   Installation expense
51.07   Repairs and maintenance
51.08   Fees and collections
51.09   Minimum rates
51.10   Single premises
51.11   Restricted use
51.12   Fire hydrants
51.13   Pollution
51.14   Mandatory hook-up
51.15   Water service contracts
51.16   Inspection
51.17   Destruction of property
51.18   Construction of water wells
Backflow and Cross Connection Prevention
51.30   Statement of policy
51.31   Definitions
51.32   Prohibitions
51.33   Survey and investigations
51.34   Where protection is required
51.35   Type of protection required
51.36   Backflow prevention devices
51.37   Installation
51.38   Testing
51.39   Authorized representative; authority
51.40   Appeals
51.41   Violations
51.42   Liability claims
Groundwater Protection
51.60   Intent
51.61   Definitions
51.62   Prohibitions; exemption
51.63   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Water Department; operation and funding,
32.30
   Water supply of parks, see §
130.35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   PREMISE or SEPARATE PREMISE. The terms PREMISE and SEPARATE PREMISE are
hereby defined to be one customer or household procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. A SEPARATE PREMISE may be any separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used by any individual or household used as
his, her or their separate residence or household or for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premise where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box,
or curb cock is located.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The municipal official designated by the governing
body as the UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT, or any person or service designated
through private contract to perform the duties of the UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
(`75 Code, § 3-102) (Am. Ord. 371A, passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord. 406, passed 12-3-
02)
§ 51.02 CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons requesting a connection to the village’s water
supply, including persons moving into the municipality, must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall require every applicant to pay
a deposit of $300. The deposit will be refunded after two years if or in case
the depositor departs or disposes of the property, whichever occurs first. In
the event that deposits are not made promptly, water service will be
discontinued or refused until all required payments are made. The Clerk also
shall require applicants for new installations to pay (1) water line inspection
fees of $30 for two inspections, one inspection before the water lines are
covered and one after the water lines are covered and (2) connection or tap
fees of $2,500 for each incoming service line and for each additional living
unit or separate premise as defined in § 51.01. The Clerk shall then forward
the application to the Utilities Superintendent. Water may not be supplied to
any applicant or private service pipe except upon the order of the Utilities
Superintendent or the Water Commissioner.
(`75 Code, § 3-103) (Am. Ord. 150, passed 4-7-81; Am. Ord. 175, passed 7-5-83;
Am. Ord. 337, passed 5-5-98; Am. Ord. 378, passed 11- 12-02; Am. Ord. 479,
passed 2-14-06; Am. Ord. 492, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 677, passed 7-11-23)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.03 NO SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits.
(`75 Code, § 3-104)
§ 51.04 WATER CONTRACT; SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The municipality through its Water Department shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer violates any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premise or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premise, or place shall
again be made except by order of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
agent.
   (B)   All water service lines for residential dwellings shall hereinafter be
constructed of not less than 3/4-inch water pipes. Prior to connecting the
water service pipe to the municipal water system, an application shall be
submitted to the Municipal Clerk.
(`75 Code, § 3-105)
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer's responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the Utilities Superintendent, provided that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(`75 Code, § 3-106) (Am. Ord. 159, passed 4-6-82; Am. Ord. 221, passed 9-3-85)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
Cross-reference:
   Connection and Inspection fees, §
51.03
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the lot line shall be paid by the
municipality. The curb stop shall be installed at the lot line by the
municipality. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe
from the lot line to the place of dispersement and for all supplies and
materials, to include but not limited to water meters, readouts, backflow
preventers, connectors, couplings, stop box, curb stop, tubing, and any other
items supplied by the village. Supplies and labor, including excavation expense
furnished by the village will be charged at cost to the customer. Customers are
required to purchase the water meters, readouts, and any mechanical devices
which determine flow of usage from the village for consistent reading.
(`75 Code, § 3-107) (Am. Ord. 378, passed 11-12-02)
Statutory reference:
   Rates and customer expense authorized, Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.07 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main and the stop box, to include the curb stop.
The customer at the customer's own expense shall replace and keep in repair all
service pipe from the stop box to the place of dispersement. When leaks occur
in service pipes, the Utilities Superintendent shall shut off water service
until the leak is repaired at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction
of the Utilities Superintendent. All water meters shall be kept in repair by
the municipality at the expense of the municipality. When meters are worn out,
they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at the expense of the
municipality, provided that if the customer permits or allows a water meter to
be damaged, injured, or destroyed through the customer's own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
Utilities Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of
such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested
at the customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number
of times, provided that if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or
more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the municipality. The
municipality reserves the right to test any water service meter at any time,
and if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the municipality shall always
have the right to place a new meter on the customer's water service fixtures at
municipal expense. Should a consumer's meter fail to register properly, the
customer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair
on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the preceding
year, provided that if no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall
be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Utilities
Superintendent. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter, or by any means or device to divert water from the service pipe so that
the same shall not pass through said meter, or while passing through said
meter, to cause the same to register inaccurately.
(`75 Code, § 3-108) (Am. Ord. 221, passed 9-3-85; Am. Ord. 236, passed 10-7-86;
Am. Ord. 604, passed 7-9-19)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. No flat rates for water service shall be quoted or allowed by the
governing body. No water service shall be furnished to any customer at a rate
that is different from other customers of the same class or type. Persons,
firms, or corporations desiring to use water temporarily shall pay such rates
as the Utilities Superintendent, with the approval of the governing body, shall
set. Without respect to schedule of rates for other customers, the governing
body may enter into special contracts with large consumers of water, but never
at a rate less than the cost of production, provided that the contract shall
always provide that the said large consumer shall always pay the minimum rate
for other customers and the contract shall be made on the basis of water
consumed in excess of said minimum. A meter shall always be attached to the
water service of such contract consumer and read monthly as in the case of
other classes of water consumers. Water service furnished to the other
departments of the municipality and to other governmental subdivisions of the
state of Nebraska shall be measured and billed for at such rates as the
governing body shall set from time to time without respect to the schedule of
rates on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk, but never at rates that do
not cover the cost of providing water. Whenever water service is supplied to
more than one customer through the same supply pipe, each customer shall pay
the minimum water service charge each month. In the event that two or more
customers are supplied through the same meter, the owner of the premises shall
pay for all water consumed thereon plus separate minimums. One bill only shall
be computed for each meter.
(`75 Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Permissible uses of income, Neb. RS 17-540
   Rates authorized, Neb. RS 17-542
Cross-reference:
   Utility bills, collection, see §
50.01
§ 51.09 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rates for each separate
premise as provided by ordinance or resolution by the governing body, a copy of
which is on file in the office of the Village Clerk and available for
inspection by the public during normal business hours, unless and until the
consumer shall, by written order, direct the Utilities Superintendent or the
Village Clerk to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case the consumer
shall not be liable thereafter for water fee accrual until the water is turned
on again. As provided for herein, the governing body shall from time to time
set the municipal water rates including minimum rates, pursuant to ordinance or
resolution and § 32.30 of this code.
(`75 Code, § 3-110) (Am. Ord. 150, passed 4-7-81; Am. Ord. 213, passed 11-5-84;
Am. Ord. 216, passed 3-5-85; Am. Ord. 223, passed 12-3-85; Am. Ord. 371A,
passed 9-3-02)
Statutory reference:
   Rates and customer expense authorized, Neb. RS 17-542
§ 51.10 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his premise, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or attachment
without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
(`75 Code, § 3-113)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.11 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of waterof any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(`75 Code, § 3-114)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(`75 Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Assessments for fire hydrants, Neb. RS 17-539
§ 51.13 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the municipal Water Department.
(`75 Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent water pollution, Neb. RS 17-536
§ 51.14 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(`75 Code, § 3-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.15 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail to
give such notice, the consumer shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(`75 Code, § 3-118)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.16 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or duly authorized agents, shall have free
access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building to
or in which water is delivered, for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(`75 Code, § 3-119)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.17 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(`75 Code, § 3-120) Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-537
§ 51.18 CONSTRUCTION OF WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Construction of a water well of any kind, whether a sand point or a
well drilled by cable or by rotation, shall be prohibited within corporate
limits, or within one mile of the corporate limits, unless the Board of
Trustees has approved by a majority vote. The well constructor must obtain
written permission of the Board of Trustees before constructing the well.
   (B)   The water well must be located according to the distance allowances
contained in State Health Department publication EE127B (1979). The applicable
publication is available in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection.
(`75 Code, § 3-122) (Ord. 241, passed 5-5-87)(`75 Code, § 3-122)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 51.30 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the municipal water
system from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer's
internal distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public potable
water supply.
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation, or control of
existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer's potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures, and industrial-process systems.
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises serviced by
the public potable water system of the municipality.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted. It is the
municipality's intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply
the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
      (2)   The municipal water department shall be primarily responsible for
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water
service connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement
and maintain the program to control cross connections. The consumer is
responsible for preventing contamination of the water system within the
consumer's own premises.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94)
§ 51.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   APPROVED TESTER. A person who is qualified to make inspections and to test
and repair backflow prevention/cross connection control devices and who is
approved by the municipality.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the municipality to
administer this subchapter.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source system, other than the public water
supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow or any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of water or other foreign liquids, gases, or
substances into the water distribution system due to negative pressure in the
piping of the water distribution system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system, provided that
backflow preventers have been tested and approved by a reputable testing
laboratory.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility or as an installation within equipment handling potentially hazardous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids, or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid, or source which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
   HAZARD.
      HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply
system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to the
health and well-being of the water consumer.
      PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer's potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air-gap
separation, or backflow prevention device.
      POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer's potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance, or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance (organic,
inorganic, or biological) which tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which
does not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely
and unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Nebraska
Department of Health and Human Services.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service
connection means the down stream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The municipal water department of the municipality.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94)
§ 51.32 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connections to the public potable or
consumer's water system may exist, unless such actual or potential cross
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the municipality or
its authorized representative.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable water supply system.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities, and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
municipal water department as necessary for the protection of health and safety
and in accordance with the National Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
municipality or its authorized representative to conduct surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer's premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections to the
consumer's water system.
   (B)   On request by the municipality or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall furnish requested information on water use practices within the
consumer's premises and in the consumer's water system.
   (C)   On request by the municipality or its authorized representative, the
consumer shall conduct periodic surveys of water use practices on the premises
of the consumer's water system to determine whether there are actual or
potential cross connections. The consumer shall provide the survey results to
the municipality or its authorized representative.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.34 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer's water
supply system when, in the judgment of the municipality or its authorized
representative, a health, plumbing, pollution, or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the municipal water department, the nature
and extent of activities on the premises, or the materials used in connection
with the activities or materials stored on the premises, would present an
immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a cross connection occur, even
though such cross connection may not exist at the time the backflow prevention
device is required to be installed. This includes but is not limited to the
following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply.
      (2)   Premises having internal cross connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross connections exist.
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross connections do not exist.
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or re-established.
      (5)   Premises, which due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion.
      (6)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      (7)   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   (C)   The following types of facilities fall into one or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device as required by the municipality or its
authorized representative or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human
Services to protect the public water supply, and such must be installed at
these facilities unless all hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have
been eliminated or corrected by other methods to the satisfaction of the
municipality or its authorized representative or the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities.
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems.
      (3)   Premises having a water recirculating system as used for boilers or
cooling systems.
      (4)   Bulk water loading facilities.
      (5)   Car washes and automobile servicing facilities.
      (6)   Chill water systems.
      (7)   Feedlots.
      (8)   Fire protection systems.
      (9)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites.
      (10)   Irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems.
      (11)   Laundries and dye works.
      (12)   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      (13)   Beauty salons.
      (14)   Schools.
      (15)   Sewage pumping stations.
      (16)   Nursing home.
      (17)   Dental office.
      (18)   Mortuary.
      (19)   Hospital.
      (20)   Doctor's office.
      (21)   Livestock watering.
      (22)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross connection.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.35 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists, as follows:
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double- check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public potable water system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to
health.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.36 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this subchapter shall be a
model or construction approved by the municipality or its authorized
representative and the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at twice the diameter of
the supply pipe measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel,
but in no case less than one inch.
   (C)   A double-check valve assemblies or a reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved
backflow prevention devices established by the Nebraska Department of Health
and Human Services, unless the device was installed at the time this subchapter
was passed and complies with required inspection and maintenance.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.37 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the municipality or its
authorized representative. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the
water consumer, unless the municipality or its authorized representative agrees
otherwise.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer's side of the water meter (if one is installed) or
the corporation stop, as close to the meter or corporation stop as is
reasonably practical and prior to any other connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
   (D)   All devices shall be installed according to manufacturer's
recommendations.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.38 TESTING.
   Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested for proper operation annually or when necessary in the opinion of the
municipality or its authorized representative. Actual testing shall be at the
expense of the consumer, unless the municipality or its authorized
representative agrees otherwise. Any required maintenance or repairs shall be
at the expense of the consumer and be subject to the approval of the
municipality. If testing shall require entry into the premises, the
municipality's authorized representative shall give notice setting forth a
proposed date and time to the consumer at least ten working days in advance by
first class mail. If the consumer cannot make the premises available for
inspection on that date and time, the consumer shall contact the municipality's
authorized representative to arrange another date and time.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94)
§ 51.39 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE; AUTHORITY.
   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any order
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the authorized representative shall be
in writing and shall clearly state the nature of the order, compliance
requirements, and set a reasonable date by which compliance must be met. All
orders will be mailed to the consumer by first class mail.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94)
§ 51.40 APPEALS.
   (A)   In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of
this subchapter has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized
representative, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
authorized representative is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a
particular premises make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal
requirements prescribed by this subchapter, the owner may file a written notice
of appeal with the Municipal Clerk within ten days after the decision or order
of the authorized representative has been made. The governing body shall hear
all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify
the decision or order of the authorized representative. Such a decision shall
be final subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law
or equity.
   (B)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94)
§ 51.41 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The municipality or its authorized representative shall deny or
discontinue water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this subchapter is not installed, tested, and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the municipality or its authorized
representative, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or by-passed or if an unprotected cross connection exists.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer is in compliance with this subchapter to the satisfaction of the
municipality or its authorized representative.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94)
§ 51.42 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal liability. The
municipality shall hold harmless the authorized representative when acting in
good faith and without malice from all personal liability for any damage that
may occur to any person or property as a result of any act required or
authorized by this title, or by reason of any act or omission of the authorized
representative in the discharge of his or her duties hereunder. Any suit
brought carrying out the provisions of this subchapter shall be defended by the
municipality, or the municipality's insurance carrier, if any, through final
determination of such proceeding.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94)
GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
§ 51.60 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to establish control by the municipality
over the location of future potential sources of contamination within the
municipal well field, within the corporate limits, or within the municipality's
extra-territorial jurisdiction, so as to prevent or minimize any hazard to the
safety of the municipality's potable water system.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 331, passed 12- -96)
§ 51.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WATER WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven,
dug, jetted, or otherwise constructed, screened, and cased for the purpose of
exploring for ground water, monitoring ground water, or extracting ground water
from an underground aquifer for public drinking water use.
   WELL FIELD. The area or region under which the municipality's drinking water
aquifer is located and which contains the municipality's potable water wells
for extraction of ground water for public drinking water purposes. The
municipality's WELL FIELD is described as follows: Section 14, SW 14, Township
11N, Range 13E.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 331, passed 12- -96)
§ 51.62 PROHIBITIONS; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct, or replace any of
the following facilities or structures or to discharge any of the following
materials within a distance of 1,200 feet from any point on the boundary of the
municipality's defined well field:
      (1)   Water well (drinking, irrigation, geothermal, or injection).
      (2)   Chemical storage (dry or liquid).
      (3)   Petroleum storage.
      (4)   Sewage lagoon.
      (5)   Cesspool.
      (6)   Dump.
      (7)   Feed lot, feed lot runoff, or animal waste disposal.
      (8)   Corral or animal enclosure.
      (9)   Pit toilet.
      (10)   Septic tank.
      (11)   Sanitary landfill.
      (12)   Sewage treatment plant.
      (13)   Sewage wet well.
      (14)   Absorption or disposal field for waste.
      (15)   Land application of solid or liquid waste.
      (16)   Sanitary or industrial discharges.
   (B)   Water wells in existence and use within the restricted area of this
subchapter, as of the effective date of this subchapter, shall continue to be
permitted unless such continued existence or use presents a hazard to the
quality of the drinking water available for public use to the municipality's
water system. The owner of any existing water well shall have the burden of
establishing the existence and use of the well at the time of the effective
date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 331, passed 12- -96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.63 VIOLATIONS.
Any person or persons found violating any provision of this subchapter shall be
subject to the penalty set forth in § 10.99. In addition, the municipality may
obtain injunctive relief and sue for damages and remediation and pursue any
other remedy available to it under the laws of the state or other authority
having jurisdiction over such matters.
(Ord. 305, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 331, passed 12- -96)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
52.01   Definitions
52.02   Building sewer installation; permits
52.03   Sewer contract
52.04   Classification
52.05   Lien
52.06   Service contracts
52.07   Complaints
52.08   Installation expense
52.09   Repairs and replacement
52.10   Mandatory hook-up
52.11   Discharges of garbage and untreated sewage; restrictions
52.12   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
52.13   Manholes
52.14   Inspections
52.15   Rate setting
52.16   Sewer rental bills
52.17   Private sewage disposal system; when authorized; requirements
52.18   Authorized plumbers
52.19   Building sewer installation; expenses
52.20   Building sewer installation; requirements
52.21   Discharges of waters; restrictions
52.22   Discharges of waters or wastes; prohibitions
52.23   Discharges of substances, waters, and wastes; prohibitions
52.24   Discharge of substances, water and wastes; pretreatment
52.25   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
52.26   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance
52.27   Industrial wastes; control manholes
52.28   Measurements and tests; methods
52.29   Industrial wastes; special arrangements
52.30   Destruction of property
52.31   Violations; notice; penalty; liability
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Sewer Department; operation and funding,
32.31
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20° C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to and including the
junction at the public sewer or to another place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PREMISE or SEPARATE PREMISE. The terms PREMISE and SEPARATE PREMISE are
hereby defined to be one consumer or household to which the municipality
furnishes sewer services.
A SEPARATE PREMISE may be any separate dwelling, apartment, building or
structure used by any individual or household to which the municipality
provides sewer services.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Utilities of the Village of Murray or
his/her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(`75 Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 405, passed 12-3-02; Am.
Ord. 445, passed 1-4-03)
§ 52.02 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
   (A)   For residential and commercial service, and
   (B)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the Village Clerk. The permit application shall be supplemented by
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent to in the
judgment of the governing body or its agent per the terms of any applicable
interlocal agreement. A permit and inspection fee of $250 for a residential or
commercial building sewer permit and $500 for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time the application is filed.
(`75 Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.03 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality shall furnish sewer services to persons within its
corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a commercial
main is now or may hereafter be laid. The rules, regulations, and sewer rental
rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of the application on the part of any applicant or the
use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall constitute a contract
between the customer and the municipality to which said contract both parties
are bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the village may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the
building or premises of such violation and that such disconnect shall be
effectuated through disconnection of the water service to the premise deemed in
violation. No further connection for sewer service to said building or premise
shall again be made save or except by order of the governing body.
(`75 Code, § 3-204) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
Statutory reference:
   Sewer contracts authorized, Neb. RS 17-901 and 17-902
§ 52.04 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department, provided that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
Statutory reference:
   Fair and impartial rates required, Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 52.05 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. Additionally, the Municipal Clerk shall also include in
any lien any unpaid amounts owing on the customer’s water bill. The Municipal
Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of
premises or their agents, whenever their tenants or lessees are 30 days or more
delinquent in the payment of sewer rent. It shall be the duty of the Village
Clerk on the first day of June of each year to report to the governing body a
list of all unpaid accounts due for sewer service together with a description
of the premise served. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the
governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk
to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01) (Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.06 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, the
person shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, the customer shall be charged for that period of time
until the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(`75 Code, § 3-206) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.07 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself/herself aggrieved by reason of any controversy
with the authorized agents of the governing body may appear before the
governing body and present his/her grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself/herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the
use of the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall
have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the
Municipal Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “Paid
Under Protest.” Such consumer may then present his/her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the Municipality.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.08 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   In the event that the property which the customer desires to connect
with the sanitary sewer system has an assessment levied against it for the
installation of sewer mains and the assessment has not been paid, the person
desiring to connect with the sanitary sewer system shall be required to pay the
assessment including the interest provided for in said assessment and in
addition thereto the customer shall pay the actual cost of the connection which
connection shall either be made by the village or by the customer with prior
approval by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   If the village is to make the connection, it shall first obtain an
estimate of the cost and the customer shall be required to pay 50% of the
estimate before the work is begun. The balance of the connection charge shall
be paid within 60 days after the connections are made. If the total cost is not
paid within the time indicated, the governing body or the Village Clerk shall
mail a written notice to the owner of said property and the occupant thereof
that the connection charge has not been paid. The notice to show cause shall
also state that the customer shall have ten days from the date thereof to pay
said charge or the water services to the property shall be terminated. The
owner or occupant receiving the letter may within ten days of the date thereof
notify the governing body through the Village Clerk that he intends to address
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Trustees to show cause why
said connection charge cannot be paid or that additional time is needed to pay
the connection charge.
   (C)   The connection charge shall remain a lien on the real property
involved until paid.
   (D)   Before any customer of the sewer department shall be allowed to
connect with the village sewer supply system, he/she shall be required to pay
the entire tap fee (set forth below) or to make arrangements satisfactory to
the village to pay the said tap fee in ten equal monthly installments. The tap
fee shall be:
      (1)   $250 for each connected service line and for each additional
premise or separate premise. Supplies and materials furnished by the village
will be charged at cost to the customer.
(`75 Code, § 3-209) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 377, passed 11-12-02;
Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03; Am. Ord. 482, passed 10-10- 06)
§ 52.09 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
governing body; provided, that the same have been previously approved by the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (`75 Code, § 3-210) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 206,
passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord. 222, passed 9-3-85; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.10 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the municipality, is
hereby required at his/her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 200 feet of
the property line.
   (B)   Such owners who fail to connect to the public sewer as herein provided
shall be required to pay to the municipality the minimum sewer use charge as
established by the municipality pursuant to §
52.15.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03; Am. Ord. 484, passed 12-12-06)
§ 52.11 DISCHARGES OF GARBAGE AND UNTREATED SEWAGE; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(`75 Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.12 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.13 MANHOLES.
   It shall be unlawful to remove a manhole cover, to cover a manhole with any
material whatsoever, or in any way interfere with the proper operation of the
sewer collection system. It shall be unlawful to construct a structure over a
sewer main, on either municipal property or leased land, without the express
approval in writing of the governing body . Entrance into a manhole or opening
for any purpose except by authorized persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be
unlawful to deposit or caused to be deposited in any receptacle connected with
the sewer system any substance which is not the usual and natural waste carried
by the sewer system.
(`75 Code, § 3-214) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 178, passed 3-6-84; Am.
Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.14 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The duly authorized agent or employee of the municipality bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The governing
body or its agent or representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in this section, the governing body or employees of the municipality shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the municipal
employees and the municipality shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by municipal employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage assessed against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
52.28.
   (C)   The governing body and other duly authorized agents or employees of
the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the municipality holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of but not limited to inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(`75 Code, § 3-215) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.15 RATE SETTING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees has the authority to charge a sewer use fee and
to set rates periodically by ordinance or resolution and shall file a copy of
the rates in the office of the Village Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
   (B)   Industrial customers of the sewer department shall be charged
according to the actual use determined by a flow meter.
   (C)   The governing body may also establish separate categories of sewer use
fees for any class of users that, because of their unique sewer usage, cannot
equitably be billed according to the above method. In all events, however, each
consumer or separate premise, or owner who has failed to comply with the
mandatory sewer connection hook-up required by §
52.10, shall be liable for the minimum use fee payable in advance.
(`75 Code, § 3-220) (Ord. 113, passed 5-3-77; Am. Ord. 160, passed 4-6-82; Am.
Ord. 224, passed 12-3-85; Am. Ord. 269, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 276, passed 6-
21-90; Am. Ord. 377, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03; Am. Ord.
483, passed 12-12-06)
§ 52.16 SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk or its agent. The Municipal Clerk shall compute or cause to be
computed sewer rental bills based upon water usage. It shall be the duty of the
customers of the sewer department to present themselves monthly at the office
of the Municipal Clerk to pay their bills in net cash. The Municipal Clerk
shall charge and collect from each customer the computer sewer rental bill
based upon water usage, all collection procedures and delinquency rates shall
be the same as those established for water use fees.
(Ord. 377, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.17 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; WHEN AUTHORIZED; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
52.10. the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owners shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Village
Clerk or the authorized agent of the governing body. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the Village Clerk, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as are deemed necessary by the Governing Body. A permit and inspection fee of
$250 shall be paid to the Village Clerk/Treasurer at the time the application
is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
governing body or its authorized agent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any state of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the governing body through the Village Clerk when the work is
ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private residential
sewage disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the appropriate
division of the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality Title 124 Rules
and Regulations for Design, Operation and Maintenance of Septic Tank Systems,
County Department of Health and the local health officer. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than that recommended
by abovementioned agencies. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to the surface of the ground or to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage system, as provided in §
52.10, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tank, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned within 180 days and removed or filled
with suitable materials. Abandonment shall be done in accordance with Nebraska
Department of Environmental Quality Title 124 Rules and Regulations for the
Design, Operation and Maintenance of Septic Tank Systems.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
municipality.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewer disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.18 AUTHORIZED PLUMBERS.
   No unauthorized personnel shall uncover, make any connection with or open
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the governing body. Before a permit may
be issued for excavating for plumbing in any public street, way, or alley, the
person applying for such permit shall have executed unto the Village Clerk and
deposited with the Clerk a certificate of insurance in the sum of $1,000,000,
conditioned that he/she will perform faithfully all work with due care and
skill, and in accordance with the law, rules and regulations established under
the authority or any ordinances of the Village pertaining to plumbing. This
certificate shall state that the person will indemnify and save harmless the
village and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs, expenses,
outlays and claims of every nature and kind arising out of the unskillfulness
or negligence on his/her part in connection with plumbing or excavating for
plumbing as prescribed in this chapter. Such certificate shall remain in force
and must be executed for a period of one year except that on such expiration it
shall remain in force as to all penalties, claims and demands that may have
accrued thereunder prior to such expiration.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.19 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXPENSES.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation, connections and
maintenance of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation and maintenance of the building
sewer.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.20 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A separate independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tested by the governing body or its
agent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M and W.P.C.F Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (E)   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (F)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of A.S.T.M. and W.P.C F. Manual of Practice
No.9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the governing
body or its agent before installation.
   (G)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the governing
body or its agent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the governing body or its agent.
   (H)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the governing body or
its agent.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.21 DISCHARGES OF WATERS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the governing body or its agent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the governing body
or its agent to a storm sewer, or natural outlet.
(`75 Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.22 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES; PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lover than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structure, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes having:
      (1)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight, or
      (2)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids, or
      (3)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average sewage
flow of the municipality, shall be subject to the review of the governing body
or its agent. Where necessary in the opinion of the governing body or its
agent, the owner shall provide, at the his/her expense, such preliminary
treatment as may be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, or
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight,
or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
governing body or its agent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(`75 Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.23 DISCHARGE OF SUBSTANCES, WATERS, AND WASTES; PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the governing body or its agent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these waters, the
governing body or its agent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150° F (65° C).
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150° F (0° and 65°
C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor 3/4 horsepower (0.76 hp
metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the governing
body or its agent.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the governing body or its agent for such materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the governing body or its agent as necessary, after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the governing body or its agent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but not
limited to Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride or sodium sulfate).
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(`75 Code, § 3-211) (Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.24 DISCHARGE OF SUBSTANCES, WASTERS, AND WASTES; PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.23 and which, in the judgment of the governing body or its agent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public
nuisance, the governing body or its agent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   If the governing body or its agent permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the governing body or
its agent and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances,
and laws.
(`75 Code, § 3-212) (Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.25 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the governing body or its agent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the governing body or its agent and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(`75 Code, § 3-212) (Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.26 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his/her expense.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.27 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the governing body or its agent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the governing body or its agent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his/her expense, and shall be maintained by him/her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.28 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS; METHODS.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(`75 Code, § 3-213) (Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.29 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.30 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
§ 52.31 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE; PENALTY; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter except
§
52.14 shall be served by the Municipal Clerk with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in subsection (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each
violation (as set forth in §
10.99). Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned
by the village by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 445, passed 11-4-03)
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
53.01   Definitions
53.02   Collection and disposal
53.03   Trash and waste prohibited
53.04   Garbage or refuse found upon any lot, road, or alley
53.05   Notice; removal
53.06   Garbage and refuse
53.07   Lien
53.08   Licensed facilities
53.09   Hazardous items and items requiring special handling or disposal
53.10   Additional regulations
53.11   Additional regulations
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or
vegetable, dead animals, or anything that may decompose and become offensive to
the public health.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by
N.A.C. Title 128 - Rules and Regulations Governing Hazardous Waste Management
in Nebraska, which for purposes or general definition is a solid waste which,
because of quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may: (a) cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating
reversible, illness; or (b) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to
human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street
cleanings, industrial wastes, and other such wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as discarded machinery, paper,
cardboard, tin cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind that
will be a detriment to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, and mining operations, and from
community activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(`75 Code, §§ 4-201 through 4-203)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions pertaining to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, Neb. RS
13-2003 through 13-2016.01
§ 53.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   The municipality shall provide or contract for the collection and disposal
of nonhazardous solid waste from residential, commercial, institutional, and
governmental premises within its solid waste jurisdiction area. Such wastes
shall be collected on a regularly scheduled basis and shall be disposed of only
in a licensed landfill facility approved by the governing body and which meets
all state and federal criteria. The governing body shall approve and is
authorized to contract with any such licensed landfill facility for these
purposes.
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory provision of services, Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 53.03 TRASH AND WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or
other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or
rubbish of any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse to
collect, and all persons shall remove the same from their property within 24
hours after being notified to do so by the governing body or a duly authorized
representative of the Board of Health.
(`75 Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 GARBAGE OR REFUSE FOUND UPON ANY LOT, ROAD, OR ALLEY.
   The governing body may provide for the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads or alleys abutting
such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The village may require
the owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of such lot or land to remove the
garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(`75 Code, § 4-205) (Ord. 259, passed 3-7-89)
§ 53.05 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing the
notice, the village through its proper offices shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse or cause it to be removed from
the lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
(`75 Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 259, passed 3-7-89)
§ 53.06 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village
shall remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads, or
alleys abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the village shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads , or alleys.
   (C)   If the Chairperson declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse
upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public
health and safety, the village shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it
to be removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal
service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division
(B) of this section if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the village removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the Board of Trustees, assess the cost of the removal
against the lot or land.
(Neb. RS 18-1752) (`75 Code, § 4-207) (Ord. 259, passed 3-7-89; Am. Ord. 661,
passed 2-8-22)
§ 53.07 LIEN.
   Whenever the village removes any garbage or refuse or causes it to be
removed from any lot or land pursuant to this chapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the governing body, assess the cost of the removal against
the lot or land.
(`75 Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 259, passed 3-7-89)
§ 53.08 LICENSED FACILITIES.
   All nonhazardous solid waste collected within the municipality shall be
disposed of only in a licensed solid waste facility. Any hazardous waste shall
be disposed of only in the manner provided by state or federal laws and
regulations.
§ 53.09 HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall put out any of the items specified below to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal.
      (1)   Yard waste from April 1 through November 30 of each year unless
such yard waste has been separated from its source and is put out for separate
collection and delivery to the landfill for the purpose of soil conditioning or
composting under the conditions otherwise specified.
      (2)   Lead-acid batteries.
      (3)   Waste oil.
      (4)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are nonrecyclable. Tires
are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of Neb. RS 13-2039.
      (5)   Discarded household appliances.
      (6)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the Environmental Protection Act.
   (B)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the
Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act or any amendments thereof.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Land disposal includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      (2)   Nonrecyclable tire means a press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic
shaped tire, or a foam pneumatic tire.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
      (3)   Waste tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original
intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect.
(Neb. RS 13-2013.02)
      (4)   Yard waste means grass and leaves.
(Neb. RS 13-2016.01)
(Am. Ord. 451, passed 1-13-04)
Statutory reference:
   Solid waste disposal required, Neb. RS 13-2020
   Disposal site postclosure care, corrective actions, taxes, and the like,
Neb. RS 13-2023
   Authority to adopt rules and regulations, Neb. RS 13-2026
§ 53.10 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may, from time to time, make and adopt by ordinance such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operation, and control of
the solid waste collection and disposal system and the regulation of solid
waste with the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem necessary
to promote the efficient operation and management of the system and to protect
the environment and the health, safety, and welfare of all persons within the
municipal solid waste jurisdiction area.
Statutory reference:
   Solid waste disposal required, Neb. RS 13-2020
   Disposal site postclosure care, corrective actions, taxes, and the like,
Neb. RS 13-2023
   Authority to adopt rules and regulations, Neb. RS 13-2026
§ 53.11 NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful and declared to be a nuisance for any person to keep
in, on, or about any dwelling, building, or premise, or any other place within
the municipal solid waste jurisdiction decayed vegetable or animal substance,
garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the public
health or offensive to the residents of the municipality unless the same is
kept in receptacles as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be
unlawful and declared to be a nuisance to throw or sweep into the streets,
alleys, parks, or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass,
garbage, refuse, or rubbish of any kind. No person shall permit garbage,
refuse, or rubbish to collect and all persons shall remove the same within 24
hours after being notified to do so by the any enforcement authority who shall
represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, refuse, or rubbish
that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of time shall be
required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight cover, or a
durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, Neb. RS 18-1720
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
70.01   Definitions
70.02   Police enforcement
70.03   Traffic regulations; general authority
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, Neb. RS 60-680
   Powers and duties of peace officers, Neb. RS 60-683
   Powers and duties of state patrol, Neb. RS 81-2005
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this title, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676) (`75 Code, § 5-101)
§ 70.02 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Sheriff is hereby authorized and empowered to exercise all powers
and duties with relation to the management of street traffic and to direct,
control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary, temporarily divert or
exclude in the interest of public safety, health, and convenience the movement
of pedestrian and animal and vehicular traffic of every kind in streets, in
parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop upon the signal of
any police officer.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices,
and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such
vehicles without the permission of the Board or its designated representative
or in a place, time, or manner which has been prohibited by the Board shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The Board may further authorize the supervising official of any area
under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation of any
motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of any or
all types, electric bicycles, other powered vehicle, electric personal
assistive mobility device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any
portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or,
in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such
vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger
the peace and safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural
features or manmade features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 684, passed 1-9-24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 60-678
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
71.01   Truck routes
71.02   Traffic lanes; designation
71.03   Arterial streets; designation
71.04   Crosswalks
71.05   Signs; signals
71.06   Speed limits
71.07   Motorcycle helmets; mopeds
71.08   Child passengers; restraint or occupant protection system
71.09   Driving under the influence; person under 21 years of age
71.10   Accident; driver's duties
71.11   Use of engine brakes; noise prohibited
71.12   All-terrain and utility vehicles
71.13   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
71.14   Restrictions on direction of travel
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
(`75 Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.02 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(`75 Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(`75 Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such
other places as it may deem necessary.
(`75 Code, § 5-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs
or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street or
alley under the municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the
regulation or prohibition, the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed, and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(`75 Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obedience to, placement of, and authority over traffic-control devices, Neb.
RS 60-6,119 through 60-6,121
§ 71.06 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)    No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or
other place at a rate of speed greater than 25 miles per hour within the
residential district, and 20 miles per hour within the business district,
unless a different rate of speed is specifically permitted by ordinance. In no
instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a greater speed than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a different speed is set by
ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(`75 Code, § 5-304)
   (B)   The following speed limits are hereby set by ordinance and appropriate
signs have been or shall be posted. It shall be unlawful to operate a motor
vehicle at speeds greater than posted on the following streets:
      (1)   Fifteen miles per hour on the following streets surrounding Tyson
Park:
         (a)   Young Street to the south;
         (b)   Park Avenue to the east;
         (c)   Davis Avenue to the west; and
         (d)   Alley between Young Street and High Street to the north.
      (2)   Twenty miles per hour: Davis Avenue from Main Street to the north
corporate limits.
      (3)   Twenty-five miles per hour: Main Street from Davis Avenue to the
Missouri-Pacific Railroad.
      (4)   The following speeds as they relate to State Highway N-1 in and
around the Village of Murray as follows:
         (a)   Forty-five miles per hour on Main Street (Highway N-1) in
Murray, Nebraska, from the west corporate village limits (which is 370 feet
east of 18th Street) to N Davis Street.
         (b)   Twenty-five miles per hour on Main Street (Highway N-1) in
Murray, Nebraska, from N Davis Street to 110 feet east of the Union Pacific
Railroad Viaduct.
         (c)   Forty-five miles per hour on Main Street (Highway N-1) in
Murray, Nebraska, from 110 feet east of the Union Pacific Railroad Viaduct to
the east corporate village limits (which is 1320 feet west of US Highway 75).
(`75 Code, § 5-305) (Am. Ord. 584, passed 6-13-17; Am. Ord. 671, passed 10-11-
22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Basic speed rule, Neb. RS 60-6,185
   General speed limit, Neb. RS 60-6,186
   State, county, and local authority, Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 71.07 MOTORCYCLE HELMETS; MOPEDS.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and
design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the user by remaining on the user's head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration, and spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist
of lining, padding, and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation's Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 CFR 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Neb. RS 60-6,279) (`75 Code, § 5-325) (Ord. 260, passed 3-7-89)
Statutory reference:
   Further provisions; penalty, Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282
§ 71.08 CHILD PASSENGERS; RESTRAINT OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, occupant protection system has the
meaning provided in Neb. RS 60-6,265.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six years of age being transported by such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2006, and which
is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age
being transported by such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on January 1, 2006, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles,
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child's weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267)
   (F)   All person being transported by a motor vehicle operated by the holder
of a provisional operator's permit or a school permit shall use such motor
vehicle's occupant protection system.
   (G)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) is guilty of an
offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than one
child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B), shall
not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged
with a violation of some other offense unless the violation involves a person
under the age of 18 years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
(Neb. RS 60-6,268)
(`75 Code, § 5-326) (Ord. 284, passed 12-4-90; Am. Ord. 372, passed 11-12-02;
Am. Ord. 468, passed 12-14-04)
§ 71.09 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; PERSON UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to operate
or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   When such person has a concentration of 0.02 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood but less than the
concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(b); or
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of 0.02 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath but less than the
concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(c).
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.01)
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the municipality
may require any person under 21 years of age to submit to a chemical test or
tests of his or her blood or breath for the purpose of determining the
concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath when the officer has probable
cause to believe that such person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle in the municipality in violation of this section. Such peace
officer may require such person to submit to a preliminary breath test. Any
person who refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose
preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation
of this section shall be placed under arrest.
   (D)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol. If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section, or such person refuses to submit to such
test or tests required pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.02)
   (E)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(60-6,203)
§ 71.10 ACCIDENT; DRIVER'S DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) of this division, the
driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public highway,
private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to property, shall:
         (a)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident; and
         (b)   Give his or her name, address, telephone number, and operator’s
license number to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants
of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a
public highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to an
unattended vehicle or property, shall immediately stop such vehicle and leave
in a conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written
notice containing the information required by subsection (1) of this division.
In addition, such driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the
collision, by telephone or otherwise, to an appropriate peace officer.
(Neb. RS 60-696)
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the license number of the
vehicle and exhibit his or her operator’s license to the person struck or the
occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
(Neb. RS 60-697)
(Ord. 386, passed 12-3-02)
§ 71.11 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES; NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
municipality to make, or cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any
mechanical device operated by compressed air and used for the purposes of
assisting braking on any vehicle, also known as engine braking. The governing
body shall cause notices to be posted or erect signs indicating this
prohibition. Any person who violates or refuses to comply with this section
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed for every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Ord. 462, passed 6-8-04)
§ 71.12 ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off highway vehicle which:
      (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (b)   Has a dry weight of 2,500 pounds or less;
      (c)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
      (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (f)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
      OPERATION ON STREETS AND ALLEYS. The width of the streets and alleys
publicly maintained for the public for the purpose of vehicular travel.
      UTILITY VEHICLE. Any size vehicle seating one or more persons (example:
mule, cushman, club car, amf, gator, ez-go) and all other utility vehicles by
any other name with three or more low-pressure tires and a dry weight of 2,500
pounds or less.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle may be operated on the
streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the village only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions set forth by this section.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle may be operated on the
streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the village between the hours
of sunrise and sunset.
   (D)   To be authorized to operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility on the
streets and alleys of the village, operator must register such vehicle with the
village and have proof of liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain
vehicle or utility vehicle while operating such vehicle on a street or alley.
   (E)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle as
authorized by this section shall be at least 16 years of age, shall possess a
valid driver's license, and shall carry proof of insurance coverage as required
by this section.
   (F)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility vehicle on
the streets or alleys of the village in violation of the Nebraska Rules of the
Road as established by the Nebraska Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 571, passed 8-9-16)
§ 71.13 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The village may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation of
vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles,
for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar year, when
operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the maintenance of
which the village is responsible whenever any such highway by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition will be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the
permissible weight thereof reduced. The village shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The village may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Ord. 582, passed 3-14-17)
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.14 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon
which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such
times as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138) (Ord. 666, passed 2-8-22)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
72.01   Unattended motor vehicle
72.02   Parking generally
72.03   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
72.04   Parking areas to be designated
72.05   Obstructing alley
72.06   Parking and loading in alleys
72.07   Truck parking and unloading
72.08   Street intersections
72.09   Obstructing traffic, driveways, and sidewalks
72.10   Curb
72.11   Time limit
72.12   Maximum time limit
72.13   Snow removal and maintenance
Persons With Disabilities
72.30   Definitions
72.31   Designation of onstreet parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
72.32   Designation of offstreet parking stalls, spaces, and access aisles
72.33   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
72.34   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
72.35   Permits; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
72.36   Permits; period valid; renewal of temporary permits
72.37   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
72.38   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
72.39   Citation, issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) (`75 Code, § 5-601) (Am. Ord. 596, passed 6-12- 18) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PARKING GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked, shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in such manner as
to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway
and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any
other parked vehicles, except where the governing body designates that vehicles
shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel at the curb or
edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or
pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls. No vehicle shall be
parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is
available for parking.
(`75 Code, § 5-602) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of the chapter, such
individual may remove or have such vehicle removed or require the driver or
other person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off
the roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165) (`75 Code, § 5-615) (Ord. 209, passed 10-2-84; Am. Ord. 261,
passed 3-7-89)
§ 72.04 PARKING AREAS TO BE DESIGNATED.
   The governing body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(`75 Code, § 5-604) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(`75 Code, § 5-605) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 PARKING AND LOADING IN ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of 1/2 hour. Every vehicle while loading or unloading
in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction
possible to traffic in such alley.
(`75 Code, § 5-606) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 TRUCK PARKING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operation of any truck with an overall
length of more than 22 feet to stop or park any such vehicle on a street which
the governing body has designated to be within the residential district, except
to load or unload. Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of time not to
exceed what is reasonably necessary to load or unload.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, regardless of
length, to park the vehicle within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in
front of a private driveway, or on a sidewalk.
   (C)   The governing body may by resolution provide truck parking areas
within the municipality, and when such parking areas are provided, it shall be
the duty of all truck operators to use such parking areas for all parking
purposes.
(`75 Code, § 5-607) (Ord. 126, passed 1-3-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where said
curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(`75 Code, § 5-608) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC, DRIVEWAYS, AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, alley, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive or any
sidewalk.
(`75 Code, § 5-609) (Ord. 161, passed 5-4-82)
§ 72.10 CURB.
    No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
said street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the governing body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(`75 Code, § 5-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 TIME LIMIT.
   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a time limit
for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or district
designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any vehicle in
any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer than fixed
in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(`75 Code, § 5-611) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 48 consecutive
hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(`75 Code, § 5-612) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or stand any vehicle on any street or
alley in the municipality at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of three
inches or more has occurred within a 24 hour period unless the snow has been
removed within that time.
   (B)   The governing body may order any street or alley, or portion thereof,
vacated for weather emergencies or street maintenance. Notice shall be given by
personally notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such street
or alley or by posting appropriate signs along such streets or alleys. Such
signs shall be posted not less than four hours prior to the time that the
vacation order is to be effective. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of
this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in this chapter, and
such vehicle may be removed and parked, under the supervision of the municipal
police, to a suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or
operator of such vehicle.
(`75 Code, § 5-613) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate during snow emergencies, Neb. RS 17-557
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
§ 72.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated in response to the act.
(Neb. RS 18-1736)
   HANDICAPPED or DISABLED PERSON.  
      (1)   Any individual with a severe visual or physical impairment which
limits personal mobility and results in an inability to travel unassisted more
than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic,
orthotic, or other assistant device, any individual whose personal mobility is
limited as a result of respiratory problems, any individual who has a cardiac
condition to the extent that his or her functional limitations are classified
in severity as being Class III or Class IV, according to standards set by the
American Heart Association, and any individual who has permanently lost all or
substantially all the use of one or more limbs.
      2)   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED or DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or
disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such
manner for no longer than one year.
(Neb. RS18-1738)
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons,
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use, or display of handicapped or
disabled parking
permits, or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01)
(Am. Ord. 387, passed 12-3-02)
Statutory reference:
   Infractions defined; citations issued, Neb. RS 18-1741.01
§ 72.31 DESIGNATION OF ONSTREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   The Governing Body may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,113,
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state,
      (3)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the Municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739, and
      (4)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit. All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit
from the motor vehicle's rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through
the front windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when
there is no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle. (Ref. 18-1736 RS Neb.) (Ord. 343, passed 6-9-99; Am.
Ord. 388, passed 12-3-02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.32 DESIGNATION OF OFFSTREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES, AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The municipality and any person in lawful possession of any offstreet
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in
such facility owned or operated by the municipality or person for the exclusive
use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113,
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the Municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739, and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent
to and visible from each stall or space, including access aisles, a sign which
is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Am. Ord. 389, passed 12-3-02)
§ 72.33 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal
guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof
or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder
to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for by this chapter when the
holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in
such spaces or access aisles. For purposes of this section, the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.34 (Motor Vehicle Permit; Issuance), but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
(Neb. RS 18-1738)
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to the provisions of section 18-1738.02
RS Neb.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.02)
(Am. Ord. 390, passed 12-3-02)
§ 72.34 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the
Municipal Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.33 (Personal Permit; Issuance), but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.01)
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.02)
(Am. Ord. 391, passed 12-3-02)
§ 72.35 PERMITS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.37 (Permits Nontransferable; Violations; Suspension). At the expiration of
such suspension, a permit may be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in
this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the
same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form
need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the
most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the
Municipal Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall
be valid for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was
issued.
(Neb. RS 18-1739) (Am. Ord. 392, passed 12-3-02)
§ 72.36 PERMITS; PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   Permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter issued prior to August 1, 2005, shall be valid
for a period ending on September 30 of the third year after the date of
issuance and shall expire on that date. Permanently issued permits issued on or
after August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a period ending on the last day of the
month of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that
date.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Neb. RS 18-1740) (Am. Ord. 393, passed 12-3-02)
§ 72.37 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped parking
infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six
months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of this Chapter. In
addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than $250 which may
be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all handicapped parking
permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are returned to the
court. At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may be
renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 18-1741) (Am. Ord. 394, passed 12-3-02)
§ 72.38 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an offstreet parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the municipality, if it
provides onstreet parking or owns, operates, or provides an offstreet parking
facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access
aisles, designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this Article if there is posted
aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space,
including access aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area
so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any onstreet parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any offstreet parking facility, without properly displaying the proper
permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom, as the
case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the
vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle shall be
guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in §
72.39 (Citation, Issuance; Complaint; Trial; Dismissal). The display on a motor
vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or
disabled person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state
shall constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped
parking infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in
violation of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned offstreet parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Am. Ord. 395, passed 12-3-02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.39 CITATION, ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01(2))
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person
shall be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint
shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of
the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit included on
the citation, signed by a peace officer, certifying that the recipient is the
lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit issued
under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace officer has personally
viewed the permit.
   (E)   A person cited for a handicapped parking violation may waive his or
her right to trial.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.04)
   (F)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.06)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
93.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
94.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks
90.01   Operation and funding
90.02   Regulations
90.03   Injury to park property
Cross-reference:
   Park offenses, §§
130.30 through
130.35
PARKS
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the governing body, which, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the municipal
park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the taxable value of all the taxable property within the
corporate limits. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the park fund
and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The governing body
shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the efficient
management of the municipal parks and other recreational areas of the
municipality. A contract of any nature which involves an expenditure of funds,
except for ordinary operating expenses, must be approved by resolution of the
majority of the members of the governing body prior to the contractual
agreement.
(`75 Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Recreation centers and areas generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 90.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulations set forth in this section for park operation
are hereby prescribed in order to promote orderly and safe use of the municipal
parks and to prevent needless injury and destruction to park property.
   (B)   Public rest rooms. Rest rooms will be open during special occasions.
The manager of organized ball teams will be permitted to open rest rooms during
games and will be responsible for locking doors before departing the area. For
other occasions contact the governing body.
   (C)   Hours of park operations. Parks shall be closed to the public after
11:00 p.m., except for special activities approved by the governing body.
   (D)   Picnic area. Use of picnic areas and facilities is on a first come,
first serve basis.
   (E)   Ball fields. Organized regulation games and practices must be cleared
through the governing body.
   (F)   Tennis courts. The governing body will operate and maintain tennis
courts. Rules will be posted for all participants.
(`75 Code, § 3-402) (Am. Ord. 644, passed 8-10-21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 INJURY TO PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person maliciously or willfully to cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any park. It shall be unlawful
for any person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area or injure or
destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other
property of the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit
any waste on or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(`75 Code, § 3-403) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, Neb. RS 28-523
Cross-reference:
   Park destruction, §
130.30
CHAPTER 91: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
91.01   Park fires prohibited
91.02   Fires regulated
91.03   Fires prohibited
91.04   Community burn pile regulated
§ 91.01 PARK FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to burn trash, brush, or any other combustible
materials within the limits of the village parks without the express consent of
the governing body.
(`75 Code, § 7-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires, provided that the
person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fireproof
trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen of not more than one-
inch mesh and located at least ten feet from any building. The incinerator
shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning paper or
other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of his or her
trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and maintained in
the manner prescribed by the duly authorized fire official. All fires shall be
built after 7:00 a.m. and completely extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the
aforesaid fires used in the course of a trade which shall be allowed during
such hours as the duly authorized fire official shall prescribe. It shall be
unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn, or cause to be burned any
garbage, animal matter, or vegetable matter. The burning of straw, hay, leaves,
or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and allowed anywhere outside the
fire limits, provided that the person setting out the same request permission
and receive an open burning permit in writing, signed by the duly authorized
fire official, on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal, and provided
further that any such burning shall be done while the fire is attended by the
person setting out the same at all times, and provided further that the said
fire shall be located at least ten feet from any building.
(`75 Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-549
   Statewide ban; exemptions, Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 91.03 FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the streets or near
any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the municipality.
(`75 Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 157, passed 12-2-81) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-556
§ 91.04 COMMUNITY BURN PILE REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any objects, burnable or
unburnable, at the community burn pile other than untreated wood and trees. It
shall be unlawful for any person to dump any objects, burnable or unburnable,
at the community compost pile, other than vegetative yard wastes including
grass and leaves.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense
and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined $150 for the first offense and $300
for the second and subsequent offenses.
   (C)   The registered owner of any vehicle used for the purpose of violating
any provisions of this chapter shall also be guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined $150 for the first offense and $300 for the
second and subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-9-14)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
92.01   Health regulations
92.02   Enforcement official
Nuisances
92.20   Generally defined
92.21   Specifically defined
92.22   Abatement procedure
92.23   Jurisdiction
92.24   Non-exclusive procedure
92.25   Declaration by Chairperson of Board of Trustees
92.26   Form of proper service of notice
92.27   Failure to abate
92.28   Hearing
92.29   Extension of time
92.30   Abatement by village
92.31   Record of expenses
92.32   Hearing on statement of expenses
92.33   Expenses a special assessment against the property
92.34   Notices of special assessment
92.35   Alternatives
92.36   Procedure in case of emergency
92.37   Severability
92.38   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
92.39   Junk yards and salvage yards
92.40   Dead or diseased trees
 
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(`75 Code, § 4-101) (Am. Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-208
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   An official designated from time to time by the Board of Trustees as the
quarantine officer of the municipality shall be the chief health officer of the
municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the governing body and the
Board of Health of health nuisances within the municipality and its zoning
jurisdiction.
(`75 Code, § 4-102) (Am. Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, Neb. RS 17-208
NUISANCES
§ 92.20 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street, or
highway in the village;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(`75 Code, § 4-301) (Am. Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.21 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any
of the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
   (B)    Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity, provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, broken stone or cement, broken crockery, broken glass,
broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the same be kept in
covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards, or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the village or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
   (L)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(`75 Code, § 4-302) (Am. Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 92.22 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the municipality shall keep such real estate free of
nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are otherwise
provide, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the governing body and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
or by conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the
nuisance is to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition
as found by the Board of Health or designated official and state that the
condition has been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the municipality or fails to comply with the order
to abate and remove the nuisance; the municipality may have such work done.
   (D)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the governing body, the governing body shall fix a time and place
at which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by
personal service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear
before the governing body to show cause why such condition should not be found
to be a nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven
nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for
the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the governing body shall hear all
objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by
the Board of Health or designated official. If after consideration of all the
evidence, the governing body finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall,
by resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at
once. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the
order to abate and remove the nuisance, the governing body may have such work
done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Neb. RS 17-123, 17-123.91) (Am. Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 564, passed
4-12-16)
§ 92.23 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and the Law Enforcement Official of
the village are directed to enforce this municipal code against all nuisances.
The jurisdiction of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, Law Enforcement
Official, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the village
within one mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(`75 Code, § 4-304) (Am. Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, Neb. RS 18-1720
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 92.24 NON-EXCLUSIVE PROCEDURE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter for abatement of a nuisance is non-
exclusive and is in addition to the procedure for abatement which is set forth
in §§
53.11, 92.42 and 92.43.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.25 DECLARATION BY CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   When the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees finds that any premises within
the village may be maintained contrary to one or more of the provisions of §§
92.20 and
92.21, he or she shall mail a notice to the owner, occupant, lessee, and/or
mortgagee of the premises. The notice shall state the conditions which
constitute the public nuisance and shall order the abatement of the nuisance
within five days after the date of notice and shall be substantially in the
following form:
   NOTICE OF NUISANCE
   [1st notice, certified mail, pictures taken by Enforcement]
TO:   [insert Owner, Occupant, Lessee, Mortgagee]
   [insert Addresses]
   Pursuant to Chapter 92 Section
92.25 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Murray, Nebraska, I, the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Murray, Nebraska declare
that the following premises in the Village of Murray, Nebraska, known as:
[insert street address]  and more particularly described as follows: [insert
legal description] is being maintained as a public nuisance contrary to Chapter
92 Sections
92.20 and
92.21 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Murray, Nebraska. The conditions
which constitute the public nuisance upon the above- described real estate are
as follows: [insert description of nuisance].
   You shall have five (5) days from the date of this notice to abate said
above-described nuisance.
   DATED this         day of                        , 20     .
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By  Chairperson of the Board of Trustees
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice of
Nuisance was mailed by registered or certified U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, on
the         day of                        . 20       to the following: [insert
names and addresses].
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By Village Clerk  
cc: Board of Trustees
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.26 FORM OF PROPER SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of said notice shall be by personal service from a law enforcement
officer or by depositing a copy of said notice in the United States Postal
Service enclosed in a sealed envelope and with postage thereon fully prepaid.
Said mail shall be registered or certified and addressed to said owner,
occupant, lessee, and/or mortgagee at the last known address of said parties as
disclosed by the current tax rolls, and if there is no known address, then inc
are of the property address. Service is complete at the time of such deposit.
Owner as used herein shall mean any person in possession and also any person
having or claiming to have legal or equitable interest in said premise. The
failure of any person to receive such notice shall not affect the validity of
the proceedings hereunder.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.27 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If the nuisance is not abated within the period given in the notice, the
Board of Trustees may determine to proceed. When, upon motion, it determines to
proceed, the Board of Trustees shall give a second notice in the same manner
set forth in §
92.26. The second notice shall establish a date, time and place at which all
interested parties may appear before the Board of Trustees or such other person
as the Board of Trustees specifies in the notice, and present evidence to
determine whether the premises constitutes a public nuisance, and if determined
to constitute a public nuisance, to be abated. Any interested party may appeal
such decision of the Board of Trustees to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings, the decision of the Board of Trustees
shall be stayed. The notice shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF HEARING TO DETERMINE EXISTENCE OF
   PUBLIC NUISANCE AND TO ABATE IN WHOLE OR IN PART
   [2d notice, certified mail or Law Enforcement deliver]
TO:   [insert Owner, Occupant, Lessee, Mortgagee]
   [insert Addresses]
   Notice hereby given that on the          day of                         ,
20     , the Board of Trustees of the Village of Murray, Nebraska passed a
motion declaring its intent to ascertain whether certain premises situated in
the Village of Murray, Nebraska, known and designated as  [insert street
address]  in said Village and more particularly described as follows: [insert
legal description] constitutes a public nuisance subject to abatement. Hearing
upon said motion to determine whether the above-noted premises constitutes a
public nuisance shall be on the          day of                      , 20     ,
at           o'clock      M., before the Board of Trustees in the Village Hall
of Murray, Nebraska, at which time the Board of Trustees shall hear all
evidence from any interested party pertaining to the above-noted issue. If said
premises, in whole or part, are found to constitute a public nuisance, as
defined by Chapter 92 Sections
92.20 and
92.21 of the Murray Municipal Code and if the same are not promptly abated, the
Municipal Authorities shall abate the same and the cost of abatement shall be
assessed upon such premises and such costs shall constitute a lien upon the
land until paid.
   Said alleged violations consist of the following: [insert description of
violation].
   DATED this         day of                        , 20     .
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By  Village Clerk
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice of
Hearing to Determine Existence of Public Nuisance and to Abate in Whole or Part
was mailed by registered or certified U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, on the
          day of                           , 20       to the following: [insert
names and addresses].
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By Village Clerk  
cc: Board of Trustees
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.28 HEARING.
   At the time fixed in the Notice, the Board of Trustees or other persons
specified to hear the matter shall hear the testimony of all competent persons
desiring to testify respecting the condition constituting the nuisance,
including the estimated cost of abatement and other matters which may be
pertinent. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Village Board of Trustees
shall, by resolution, declare its findings. If the Board of Trustees so
concludes, it may declare the condition existing to be a nuisance and direct
the person owning the property upon which the nuisance exists to abate it
within a reasonable time after the date of posting on the premises a notice of
the adoption of the resolution, and sending notice as set forth in §
92.27. Said notice shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION NO.           
TO:   [insert Owner, Occupant, Lessee, Mortgagee]
   [insert Addresses]
   You are hereby notified that on          day of
                             , 20     , the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Murray, Nebraska by Resolution No.          , after notice and hearing as
specified in said Resolution, did determine that the following constitutes a
public nuisance, to wit: [insert description of nuisance].
   You are granted             days from the date of this notice to abate said
nuisance. Failure to abate said nuisance shall result in said nuisance being
abated by the Village of Murray, Nebraska and the cost of the abatement shall
be assessed upon said premises and constitute a lien upon said premises until
paid.
   DATED this         day of                        , 20     .
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By  Village Clerk
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice of
Adoption of Resolution No.            was posted on the premises afore-
described and was mailed by registered or certified U.S. Mail, postage prepaid,
on the           day of                      , 20       to the following:
[insert names and addresses].
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By Village Clerk  
cc: Board of Trustees
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.29 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   The Board of Trustees may grant an extension of time to abate the nuisance
if, in its opinion, good cause for extension exists.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.30 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   If the person fails to abate the nuisance within the time set forth, the
village may proceed to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.31 RECORD OF EXPENSES.
   The village shall keep an itemized account of the expenses involved in
abating the nuisance. The village shall post conspicuously on the property and
it shall also mail to the owner of the property a statement showing the expense
of the abatement, together with a notice of the time and place when the
statement will be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval and
confirmation and at which time the Board of Trustees may consider the
objections and protests to the cost of the work. Said notice shall be
substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF HEARING ON EXPENSES
   OF ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE
TO:   [insert Owner, Occupant, Lessee, Mortgagee]
   [insert Addresses]
   Pursuant to Chapter 92 Section
92.31 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Murray, Nebraska, you are hereby
notified that the following is a statement showing the expenses incurred by the
Village of Murray in abating a nuisance upon the following described real
estate, to wit: [insert legal description].
   Said expenses are as follows: [insert itemized expenses].
   You are further notified that said Statement of Expenses shall be submitted
to the Board of Trustees for consideration on the          day of
                          , 20      , at                o'clock      M., before
the Board of Trustees in the Village Hall, Murray, Nebraska, at which time you
may appear to object or protest the expense incurred in the abatement of said
nuisance.
   DATED this         day of                        , 20     .
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By  Village Clerk
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice was
posted on the premises afore-described and was mailed by registered or
certified U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, on the           day of
                     , 20       to the following: [insert names and addresses].
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By Village Clerk  
cc: Board of Trustees
 
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.32 HEARING ON STATEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   At the time fixed for hearing on the statement of expenses, the Board of
Trustees shall consider the statement and any protest or objections raised by
the persons liable to be assessed for the costs of the abatement. The Board of
Trustees may revise, correct or modify the statement as it considers just and
thereafter shall confirm the statement by motion or resolution. The decision of
the Board of Trustees on all protests and objections which may be made shall be
final and conclusive. The procedure governing the hearing shall be provided by
§
92.28.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.33 EXPENSES A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AGAINST THE PROPERTY.
   If the property owner does not pay the expense of abating the nuisance
within five days after the Board of Trustees confirms the cost of abatement,
the costs shall become a special assessment against the real estate upon which
the nuisance was abated. The assessment shall continue until it is paid,
together with interest as set by the applicable statutes of the State of
Nebraska.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.34 NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   The village shall file in the offices of the County Register of Deeds and
County Treasurer a certificate substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
   Under the authority of the Murray Municipal Code, the Village did on
          day of               , 20     , abate a nuisance upon the real estate
hereinafter described and then on            day of                      ,
20     , did assess the cost of the abatement upon the real estate. The Village
of Murray claims a special assessment on the real estate for the expense of
doing the work in the amount of $             . This amount is a special
assessment against the real estate until it is paid, with interest as set by
the applicable statutes of the State of Nebraska, until it discharged of
record. The real estate referred to above, and upon which the special
assessment is claimed is that certain parcel of land situated within the
Village of Murray, Cass County, State of Nebraska and more particularly
described as follows: [insert legal description].
   DATED this         day of                        , 20     .
                        Village of Murray, Nebraska
                        By  Village Clerk
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.35 ALTERNATIVES.
   Nothing in the foregoing sections shall be deemed to prevent the Board of
Trustees from ordering the Village Attorney to commence a civil and/or criminal
proceeding to abate a public nuisance under applicable civil or penal code
provisions as an alternative to the proceedings set forth herein.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.36 PROCEDURE IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
   When the conditions which constitute the nuisance pose an immediate threat
to the public peace, health or safety, the Board of Trustees may order the
nuisance abated immediately or take steps itself to abate the nuisance after
adoption of a resolution declaring the facts which constitute an emergency. The
resolution to be effective shall be adopted by three-fourths vote of the Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.37 SEVERABILITY.
   The Board of Trustees hereby declares that should any section, paragraph,
sentence, or word of this chapter hereby adopted be declared for any reason to
be invalid, it is the intent of the Board of Trustees that it would have passed
all other portions of this chapter independent of the elimination herefrom of
any such portion as may be declared invalid.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.38 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the governing body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the law enforcement powers of the
village, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at
any time before trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710) (Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
§ 92.39 JUNK YARDS AND SALVAGE YARDS.
(A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions
shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, building materials, machinery, or junked, dismantled or wrecked
motor vehicles or parts thereof, iron, steel, or other old or scrapped ferrous
or nonferrous material.
      JUNK YARD. A yard, lot, or place, uncovered or outdoors, which is
maintained, operated or used for sorting, keeping, buying or selling of junk as
defined herein, or for the maintenance or operation of a salvage yard.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind.
      SALVAGE YARD. A lot, building, structure, enclosure, or premise whereon
automobiles or other machinery and building materials not for construction on
said premises are kept for the purpose of salvage, wrecking, repairing or
storing the same for compensation.
   (B)   Prohibition. All junk yards and salvage yards, as defined in this
chapter, within the residential districts of the village, are hereby declared
to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person to operate or suffer
or permit the same to remain at any place within the residential district of
the village.
(Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.40 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the village or within its one-mile
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14
days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or
appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall
render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the conclusion
of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have the work done to
abate and remove the dead or diseased trees. If the owner or occupant of the
lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the village within five
days after receipt of such notice or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done. The village may
levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment. (Neb. RS 17-
555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction. The
provisions in division (A)(2) shall apply to such nuisances. For the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this section, the village police shall have the
authority to enter upon private property to inspect the trees thereon.
(Am. Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03; Am. Ord. 558, passed 2-9-16; Am. Ord. 581, passed
3-14-17)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate dead and diseased trees, Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, Neb. 28-1321
Cross-reference:
   Overhanging branches prohibited, see §
93.07
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
   (B)   Abatement.  
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the village
may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722) (Ord. 408, passed 4-1-03)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Municipal Property
93.01   Definitions
93.02   Maintenance and control
93.03   Trees and obstructions
93.04   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
93.05   Permitted obstructions
93.06   Sale and conveyance of real property
93.07   Overhanging branches
93.08   Acquisition of property; construction; elections, when required
93.09   Acquisition of real property; public meetings; access for recreational
use
93.10   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
93.11   Special improvement district; assessment and creation procedure
93.12   Improvement district; land adjacent
93.13   Architecture or engineering; requirements
93.14   Regulation of obstructions
Sidewalks
93.30   Requirement to keep clean
93.31   Repair
93.32   Construction bids
93.33   Construction by petition
Streets
93.50   Names and numbers
93.51   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
93.52   Excavation
93.53   Driving stakes
93.54   Mixing concrete
93.55   Harmful liquids
93.56   Vacating public ways
93.57   Improvement districts; streets, alleys, walks, malls, and other
improvements
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(`75 Code, § 8-101)
§ 93.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the municipality and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and
free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (`75 Code, § 8-102)
§ 93.03 TREES AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No person, or persons, shall plant, or allow to grow, any tree within the
sidewalk space without first making a written, or verbal, application to, and
receiving a written permit from the governing body. No person, or persons,
shall place or cause to be placed any obstruction upon the sidewalks,
curbstones, gutters, crosswalks, and sidewalk space within the municipality.
Any tree planted within the sidewalk space, any dead or diseased tree within
the street right-of- way, and any obstruction placed or caused to be placed
upon the sidewalks, curbstones, gutters, crosswalks, and sidewalk space within
the corporate limits shall, at the discretion of the governing body, be deemed
to be a nuisance. When any such tree or obstruction is declared to be a
nuisance, the governing body shall give written notice, by personal notice or
certified mail, to the owner or the owner's duly authorized agent and to the
occupant, if any, of the property adjacent to the sidewalk space upon which the
tree has been unlawfully, planted, where a dead or diseased tree has been
maintained, or where the obstruction has been placed or caused to be placed, to
abate and remove the nuisance, and such notice shall include the right to a
hearing before the governing body. Within 30 days after the receipt of the
notice, if the owner or occupant of the adjacent property does not request a
hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have the work done and may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or lots of ground so
benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed.
(`75 Code, § 8-103) (Ord. 335, passed 3-3-98) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to remove obstructions, Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to regulate and abate obstructions, Neb RS 17-557 and 17-557.01
   Authority to prevent nuisances, Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.04 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The municipality shall have power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other municipal property.
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A), the
municipality through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be
removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The
governing body shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment, and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the street fund.
(`75 Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 336, passed 3-3-98; Am. Ord. 559, passed 2-9-16)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to remove obstructions, Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to regulate and abate obstructions, 17-557 and 17-557.01
Cross-reference:
   Requirement to keep sidewalks clean, §
93.30
§ 93.05 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the municipal official in charge of municipal
streets to do so, provided that no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk
space and more than 1/3 of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real
estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed,
wrecked, or repaired shall be granted, and provided further that a suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the manner required by
the official issuing the permit.
(`75 Code, § 8-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)    Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
village to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
village.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the village equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last regular village
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the Board of Trustees, that property shall not
then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with
the aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The Board
of Trustees shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the petition
is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
also compare the signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct,
and village or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
village or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of
Trustees finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and
addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to
determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and
the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following
passage of the resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the
sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village for a period
of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall
give a general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms
and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may
be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
(`75 Code, § 8-104) (Am. Ord. 170, passed 11-1-82; Am. Ord. 452, passed 1-13-
04; Am. Ord. 594, passed 6-12-18; Am. Ord. 675, passed 2-14-23)
§ 93.07 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of said walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of said street. Whenever the limbs or branches of any
tree or trees extend over streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions
herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights or
with the convenience of the public using said street or sidewalk, the governing
body at any regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner
or occupant to cut or remove said obstructions within five days after having
received a copy thereof from the Municipal Clerk stating that the municipality
will remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant
as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution
is not complied with. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-557.01
§ 93.08 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS, WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954 and be
adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and no election
shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days
after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in number
to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein and is filed with the governing body. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in subdivision (C)(1) of this subsection if the
property can be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an
appraisal, there is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than
$25,000. The purchase shall be approved by the governing body after notice and
public hearing as provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
(`75 Code, § 8-108) (Ord. 189, passed 4-3-84)
§ 93.09 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETINGS; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the governing body has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 93.10 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the municipality shall not
purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an
estimated value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has
been performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 93.11 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality's governing body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line, sewer line, or any other such
improvement.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431, the governing body
shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs of such
improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby, whether or
not such properties were previously assessed for the same general purpose. In
creating such special improvement district, the governing body shall follow
procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 18-1751) (`75 Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 189, passed 4-3-84)
§ 93.12 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a municipality may include
land adjacent to such municipality when creating an improvement district, such
as a sewer, paving, water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension
district. The governing body shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-2427) (`75 Code, § 8-110) (Ord. 251, passed 3-1-88)
§ 93.13 ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the municipality shall not engage in the construction of any
public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer; or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   The division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
Neb RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning .is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised
by an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality
as a part of a public water supply.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the municipality is considered a
public service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a
professional engineer to be in responsible charge of the municipality's
architectural or engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449, and 81-3453 ) (Ord. 358, passed 6-6-00; Am.
Ord. 469, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 568, passed 4-12-16)
§ 93.14 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The village may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks,
curbstones, gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them
there or at the expense of the village and require and regulate the planting
and protection of shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and
removing of such trees.
   (B)   The village may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and
basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts
and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or
over and adjoining, and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks
in the village.
(Ord. 560, passed 2-9-16; Am. Ord. 580, passed 3-14-17)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to remove obstructions, Neb. RS 17-555
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.30 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of
a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m. the
following day, provided that sidewalks within the residential areas of the
municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.31 REPAIR.
   (A)   The Chairperson and the Board of Trustees may construct and repair
sidewalks, or cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as
the Chairperson and Board of Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense
thereof on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
      (1)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the
municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the governing body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten days after
the date of publication of the notice, notify the municipality that he or she
will repair the sidewalk within 30 days after such date of publication;
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
municipality within the ten days or, having so notified the municipality, fails
to repair the sidewalk within the 30 days, the municipality will cause the
sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed against the
property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested. (Neb. RS 13-312)
      (3)   For purposes of this division, NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the governing body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 17-524.
(`75 Code, § 8-201) (Am. Ord. 470, passed 12-14-04) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct and repair, Neb. RS 17-522
§ 93.32 CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct
any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to
be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor, shall be published in at least one issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, provided that bids so
invited shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten days
after the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or
special meeting of the governing body, and the governing body shall then award
the work to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the
governing body may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates
issued to him by the Municipal Clerk entitling him to all assessments or
special taxes, against such real estate whenever such assessments or special
taxes, shall be collected together with the interest or penalty collected
thereon. Each certificate shall give the legal description of the lot, lots, or
parcel of ground against which the assessments or special taxes are assessed.
Such certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor. The County
Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the certificate
or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real estate,
together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation
of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or special taxes
against such real estate together with interest or penalty thereon shall have
been collected.
(`75 Code, § 8-203)
Statutory reference:
   Bid requirements; procedures, Neb. RS 18-2442 et seq.
§ 93.33 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this chapter upon the
freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the municipality an agreement
to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service
fee, that all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a
perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such
sidewalk to be constructed, and that the petitioner gives and grants to the
municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of such construction
against the freeholder's real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and
promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement
shall be levied, allocated, financed, and specially assessed as provided by
law. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which
the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
Statutory reference:
   Petition by landowners, Neb. RS 17-510
STREETS
§ 93.50 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the municipal official in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to
assign the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the
owner or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(`75 Code, § 8-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve, Neb. RS 17-509
§ 93.51 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
municipality and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue,
alley, or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the municipality, or
by the owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as
shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and
become a part of such property, unless the village reserves title in the
ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the village,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of such property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (4)   When the municipality vacates all or any portion of a street,
avenue, alley, or lane, the municipality shall, within 30 days after the
effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance
with the Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is
located to be indexed against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on, or below
the surface of the ground that   are existing as valid easements at the time
title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public
or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish such
purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The municipality shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend
any street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or
annul, vacate, or discontinue the same.
(`75 Code, § 8-302) (Am. Ord. 396, passed 12-3-02)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
   Eminent domain powers, Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724
§ 93.52 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
chief municipal street official authorizing such excavations.
(`75 Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.53 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the chief municipal street official.
(`75 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.54 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(`75 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.55 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(`75 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-557
§ 93.56 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or
her property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES  shall not mean
those losses or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in
common with the rest of the village or public at large, even though those
losses or damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in
degree than the rest of the village or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time, and
place of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of such
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that
includes essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the village.
         (b)    A statement that the village will have an easement for
maintaining all utilities.
         (c)    A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested
residents of the village to a special commission to ascertain the amount of
special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and
which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule:
   An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(`75 Code, §§ 8-311, 8-312) (Ord. 234, passed 9-2-86; Am. Ord. 397, passed 12-
3-02)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. 17-558 and 17-559
§ 93.57 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS, AND OTHER
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Special improvement districts for street repair and construction may
established from time to time by the governing body pursuant to state statute
as set forth in Neb. RS 18-1751.
   (B)   The governing body may grade (partially or to an established grade),
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-
lay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public
grounds, public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the
municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the municipality; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431. The governing body may by
ordinance create improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may
include two or more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways,
and may include two or more types of the improvements authorized under this
section in a single district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which
are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the property especially
benefitted shall be ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as
otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
(Am. Ord. 589, passed 6-12-18)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
94.01   Running at large
94.02   Banned from municipality
94.03   Wild animals prohibited; exemption
94.04   Pitting
94.05   Killing and injuring
94.06   Enclosures
94.07   Fowl prohibited
94.08   Traps
94.09   Owners; liabilities, duties
Abandonment, Neglect, and Cruelty
94.20   Relating to animal abandonment, neglect, mistreatment
94.21   Cruelty defined
94.22   Cruelty
94.23   Enforcement powers; immunity
94.24   Violation
94.25   Equine; bovine; prohibited acts
Dogs and Cats
94.40   License and tax required; exemptions; tags
94.41   Reserved
94.42   Reserved
94.43   Kennels
94.44   Wrongful licensing
94.45   Removal of license tags
94.46   Owner defined
94.47   Rabies suspected; threat; proclamation
94.48   Uncollared
94.49   Strays
94.50   Running at large
94.51   Capture impossible
94.52   Dangerous dogs
94.53   Vicious
94.54   Interference with law enforcement officer
94.55   Barking and offensive
94.56   Fighting
94.57   Killing and poisoning
94.58   Impounding; notice
94.59   Abandonment
94.60   Kennel certificates; denial
94.61   Liability of owner
 
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal,
or any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit any
animal to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the village
or upon property of another, or to be tethered or staked out in such a manner
so as to allow such animal to reach or pass into any public way.
(`75 Code, § 6-201)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens,
turkeys, geese, or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits.
(`75 Code, § 6-206) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-547
Cross-reference:
   Dogs and cats, running at large, see §
94.50
§ 94.02 BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock.
(Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Powers of the Board of Trustees, Neb. RS 17-207
§ 94.03 WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXEMPTION.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except such animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
(`75 Code, § 6-202) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Powers of the Board of Trustees, Neb. RS 17-207
§ 94.04 PITTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Neb. RS 28-1004) (`75 Code, § 6-207)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
         (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
         (c)   Own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for such purpose; or
         (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (B)(1) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (B)(1) of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1005)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in
subdivision (C)(2)(b) of this subsection, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means
equipment, products, and materials of any kind that are used, intended for use,
or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning, or furtherance
of the pitting of an animal against another as defined in division (A) of this
section. ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            (i)   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog's grip on
another animal or object;
            (ii)   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a
central support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to
secure a cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            (iii)   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of
an endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            (iv)   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to
contain an animal fight;
            (v)   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            (vi)   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            (vii)   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            (viii)   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
         (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment,
products, or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice
veterinary medicine and surgery in this state.
      (3)   Any person violating division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-1005.04)
(`75 Code, §§ 6-208, 6-209) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 506, passed
3-8-11) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the said animal.
(`75 Code, § 6-204) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, Neb. RS 28-1008
   Cruelty prohibited, Neb. RS 28-1009
§ 94.06 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
(`75 Code, § 6-205) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-547
§ 94.07 FOWL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on their property any
poultry, chickens (except as provided in (B) below), turkeys, geese, or any
other fowls within the corporate limits.
   (B)   The Village Board shall have the authority to approve the keeping of
ten or fewer female chickens within the corporate limits upon application to
the Board. Such approval may be withdrawn by the Board at any time should the
keeping of said chickens becomes a nuisance or is in violation of any other
village regulations or laws.
(Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 536, passed 6-11-13) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-547
§ 94.08 TRAPS.
   The use of any type of cyanide pellet traps or any similar type of trap
containing a chemical noxious to man is hereby prohibited within the corporate
limits of the village, unless the use of such chemical trap is specifically
deemed necessary by the Code Enforcement Officer or Humane Officer, and the
Board of Health in or for the control of communicable disease. No person shall
set up or allow to be set up on his or her property steel jaw traps, spring
traps with "teeth" or perforated edges on the holding mechanism, or any type of
trap with a holding mechanism designed in such a fashion as to reasonably
ensure the cutting, slicing, tearing or otherwise traumatizing of the entrapped
prey, for the purpose of ensnaring domestic or wild animals within the limits
of the village, unless the use of such trap is specifically deemed necessary by
the Code Enforcement Officer or the Humane Officer and the Board of Health in
or for the control of communicable disease. This section is not to be construed
to include those traps designed to kill common rodents, i.e., rates, mice,
gophers, and groundhogs; provided, that the property owner is responsible for
taking care that any of the above said rodent traps are not placed or used on
or about his or her property in such a manner as to reasonably ensure the
trapping of any other domesticated or wild animals, or of a human.
(Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 OWNERS; LIABILITIES, DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal owned, kept,
or harbored by him/her or under his/her charge or control, to injure or destroy
any real or personal property of any description belonging to another person.
The owner or possessor of any such animal, in addition to the usual judgment
upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the person so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
   (B)   The owner of any animal is responsible for removing all excreta
deposited on public walks, recreation areas or private property, other than the
owner's property, by the owner's animal, or deposited as a result of the owner
cleaning the animal's cage, pen, or other animal facility.
   (C)   The owner of every animal is responsible for removing all trash or
garbage scattered or removed from its rightful place by the owner's animal,
including trash or garbage belonging to the owner.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any dog, cat or other animal
which has bitten or attacked a person, or any other person having knowledge of
such bite or attack, including physicians, nurses, and veterinarians, to report
such act to the humane officer or city police officer.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal, and the duty of
physicians and veterinarians, to report to the humane officer or city police
officer the existence of any animal known or suspected to be suffering from
rabies.
   (F)   No person shall keep, harbor, or maintain any animal or fowl which
shall be loud and unusual noises disturb and destroy the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood.
   (G)   Any person who violates this § 94.09 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction shall be subject to fine of not more than $500 and/or
imprisonment for up to 30 days for each offense.
(Ord. 647, passed 12-14-21)
ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY
§ 94.20 RELATING TO ANIMAL ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, bum, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the village or any
other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the village
or any other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws,
rules, regulations, or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a
special investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant
to Neb. RS 81-201 while acting within the authority of the Director of
Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
(`75 Code, § 6-210) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 507, passed 3-8-11;
Am. Ord. 532, passed 2-12-13; Am. Ord. 569, passed 4- 12-16; Am. Ord. 578,
passed 3-14-17; Am. Ord. 675, passed 2-14-23) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 CRUELTY DEFINED.
   A person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized by
law, they intentionally or recklessly:
   (A)   Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment, which consists of every act
or omission which cause, or unreasonably permits the continuation of
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain or suffering.
   (B)   Subjects any animal in their custody to cruel neglect, which consists
of a failure to provide food, water, protection from the elements, opportunity
to exercise, or other care normal, usual, and proper for an animal's health and
well being.
   (C)   Abandons any animal which means the leaving of an animal by its owner
or other person responsible for its care or custody without making effective
provisions for its proper care.
   (D)   Kills or injures any animal belonging to another. No person shall kill
or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones, clubs, poisons, or any
other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous and cannot be captured
without danger to the persons attempting to effect a capture of the said
animal.
(Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04)
§ 94.22 CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the village.
(Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 ENFORCEMENT POWERS; IMMUNITY.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal has
been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek a
warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal has
been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may issue a
citation to the owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
   (C)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012) (`75 Code, § 6-211) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12- 04; Am. Ord.
507, passed 3-8-11; Am. Ord. 532, passed 2-12-13; Am. Ord. 569, passed 4-12-16;
Am. Ord. 578, passed 3-14-17) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 VIOLATION.
   (A)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons, cruelly
neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she knowingly
and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to distract,
agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such animal
from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009) (`75 Code, § 6-212) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord.
507, passed 3-8-11; Am. Ord. 532, passed 2-12-13; Am. Ord. 569, passed 4-12-16;
Am. Ord. 578, passed 3-14-17) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 28-1009.02, 28-1009.03, 28-1013.01, 28-1013.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 94.40 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the municipality
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by
the Village Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by
the governing body, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It
shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an
unsprayed female dog as a male or a spayed female dog if the governing body has
established different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement of discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the governing body for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the General Fund of the village, except as otherwise provided by Neb. 54-603.
('75 Code, § 6-101) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 518, passed 5-10-
11; Am. Ord. 570, passed 5-11-16) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 94.41 RESERVED.
§ 94.42 RESERVED.
§ 94.43 KENNELS.
   Any person who owns or harbors in the aggregate three or more dogs or cats
over three months of age on his or her premises shall be considered to be
maintaining a kennel for which an annual license fee of $40 will be charged in
addition to the annual required license fee per each dog or cat. The license
fee shall be paid each year to the Municipal Clerk by the owner by or before
the first (1st) of January of each year. Any person who becomes subject to this
section on or after the first (1st) day of January of any year shall be liable
for the payment of the dog or cat license herein and such license shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days of becoming subject to this chapter.
('75 Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.44 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog or cat to wear any license, metallic tag, or other
municipal identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for dogs or
cats, nor shall the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license
an unaltered female dog with a license prescribed for a male or altered female
dog.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (`75 Code, § 6-104) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty,
see §
94.99
§ 94.45 REMOVAL OF LICENSE TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
('75 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.46 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog or cat to be for ten days or
more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog or cat and shall be deemed
to be responsible for all licensing requirements herein prescribed and shall be
liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(`75 Code, § 6-105) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04)
§ 94.47 RABIES SUSPECTED; THREAT; PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
      DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health and Human Services.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the
species Felis domesticus, or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
      HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a
domestic dog with a nondomestic canine species.
      OWN. To possess, keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody
of a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
      OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having charge or
control of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person's
house, yard, or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
      RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. Village health and law enforcement officials
who shall enforce the provisions of this section relating to the vaccination
and impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not
be responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
      VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid
animal with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of
Nebraska or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
   (B)   Suspected. Any dog or cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or
any dog or cat not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter, which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin,
shall be seized and impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for
a period of not less than ten days. If upon examination by a veterinarian, the
dog or cat has no clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it
may be released to the owner, or, in the case of an unlicensed dog or cat, it
shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions herein. If the owner of
the dog or cat has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or
some other responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which time
the dog or cat shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the owner's
expense. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog or cat may be released
from confinement.
   (C)   Threat; proclamation. It shall be the duty of the governing body
whenever in its opinion the danger to the public safety from rabid dogs or cats
is great or imminent, to issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning,
keeping, or harboring any dog or cat to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a
period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the date of such
proclamation, or until such danger is passed. The dogs or cats may be harbored
by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the premise
wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be
the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog or cat to confine
the same as herein provided.
   (D)   Post-incident management. Any domestic animal which has bitten any
person or caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall be subjected to
post-incident management as provided in rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated by the department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406)
   (E)   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management.
Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
department.
(Neb. RS 71-4407)
(`75 Code, § 6-106) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 611, passed 1-14-
20; Am. Ord. 612, passed 1-14-20; Am. Ord. 613, passed 1- 14-20) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.48 UNCOLLARED.
   All dogs and cats found running at large upon the streets and public grounds
of the municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public
nuisance. Uncollared dogs and cats found running at large shall be killed or
impounded in the Municipal Animal Shelter by the Code Enforcement Officer or
Humane Officer.
(`75 Code, § 6-107) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, Neb. RS 54-605
§ 94.49 STRAYS.
   No person shall allow any stray dog or cat to habitually remain or to be
located or fed within his or her house, store, yard, enclosure or place, but
shall turn such dog or cat over to the Code Enforcement Officer or Humane
Officer for observation for a period of 72 hours after which time shall be
handled the same as an impounded dog or cat.
(Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.50 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to allow such dog or
cat to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the
municipality. It shall be the duty of the municipal police to cause any dog or
cat found to be running at large within the municipality to be taken up and
impounded.
RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog or cat found off the premises of the owner
and not under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash,
cord, chain, wire, rope, cage, or other suitable means of physical restraint.
(`75 Code, § 6-108) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-526
   Dog collars required, 54-605
Cross-reference:
   Animals running at large in general, see §
94.01
§ 94.51 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or Humane Officer shall have the authority to
kill any animals showing vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which
make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(`75 Code, § 6-109) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04)
§ 94.52 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the municipality, and includes any local law enforcement agency
or other agency designated by the municipality to enforce the animal control
laws of the municipality.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this chapter or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.   
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A dog, cat, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.    Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment; or
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section or for a
reasonable veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such
dog or permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in
this state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control
authority shall not grant permission under this section if the county, city, or
village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous
dogs. After the permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and
such dog for a period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure
the owner’s compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city, or
village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division shall permit
the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by twelve inches and shall contain the words warning
and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
   (E)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a
serious bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) of this section
that the dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily
injury, in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than
the owner or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
   (G)   Additional regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
restrict or prohibit any governing body of the municipality from establishing
and enforcing laws or ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of
this section.
(Neb. RS 54-624)
(`75 Code, § 6-110) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.53 VICIOUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog or cat
of a dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the said dog or cat being securely held by a chain
not over six feet long. If any vicious or dangerous dog or cat is otherwise
held, confined, or allowed to run at large, the Code Enforcement Officer or
Humane Officer shall have the authority to put the dog or cat to death. Upon
written or oral complaints filed with the Village Clerk, Code Enforcement
Officer, or Humane Officer that any dog or cat owned by the person named in the
complaint is committing injury to persons or property or is an annoyance,
dangerous, offensive or unhealthy, the Code Enforcement Officer or Humane
Officer shall investigate the complaint and, if in his or her opinion the
situation warrants, shall notify the owner to restrain such dog and cat from
running at large, and keep such dog or cat upon the premises of the owner, even
though the license has been paid.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.54 INTERFERENCE WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
Code Enforcement Officer or Humane Officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon him or her by the provisions or this chapter, or to break open or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting
or conveying of dogs or cats to the shelter.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.55 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog or cat
which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy
or disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
at pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the village. Furthermore, it shall be
unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of a female in season to allow such
dog or cat to run at large or to house such animal in a way which results in
attracting other dogs or cats to linger about such premises and cause a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog or
cat which shall annoy or disturb any neighborhood or person. Upon written or
oral complaints the Code Enforcement Officer or Humane Officer shall
investigate the complaint and if in their opinion the situation warrants, shall
notify the owner to silence and restrain such dog or cat. The provision of this
section shall not be construed to apply to the Village Animal Shelter.
(`75 Code, § 6-112) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent annoyances, Neb. RS 17-526
§ 94.56 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
or cats to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(`75 Code, § 6-113) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent annoyances, Neb. RS 17-526
§ 94.57 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog or cat, or in any manner to injure, maim, or
destroy, or in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog or cat
that is the property of another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned
food where the same is accessible to a dog or cat, provided that this section
shall not apply to municipal police officers acting within their power and
duty.
(`75 Code, § 6-111) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, Neb. RS 28-1008
   Cruelty prohibited, Neb. RS 28-1009
§ 94.58 IMPOUNDING; NOTICE.
   (A)    The Code Enforcement Officer, Humane Office, or any person designated
by the governing body as an animal control enforcement officer shall capture
and secure any animal in violation of any provision of this chapter and convey
the animal to the place of impoundment so designated by the governing body. The
animals so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided
with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each impounded
animal shall be kept and maintained at an animal shelter for a period of not
less than five days after public notice has been given unless reclaimed earlier
by the owner. Public impoundment notice may include:
      (1)   Significant marks or identifications;
      (2)   Breed, color, sex, or age if possible;
      (3)   Posting within 48 hours at three public places;
      (4)   Place of confinement identified;
      (5)   Contact authority.
   (B)   Any dog or cat may be reclaimed by the owner during regular business
hours of the clerk's office upon paying all associated costs incurred by the
municipality including but not limited to confinement fees, enforcement fees,
citation costs, and licensing fees prior to the release of the dog or cat to
the owner. The owner shall be required to provide proof of rabies vaccination
within 72 hours after release. If the dog or cat is not claimed at the end of
the five days after public notice has been given, the Code Enforcement Officer,
Humane Office, or any person designated by the governing body as animal control
enforcement officer may dispose of the animal in accordance with the applicable
rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in the
judgment of the Code Enforcement Officer, Humane Office, or any person
designated by the governing body as animal control enforcement officer, a
suitable home can be found for an such animal, then said animal shall be turned
over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees by
cash, money order, cashier check, or credit card and meet all licensing and
vaccinating requirements provided in the chapter. The municipality shall
acquire a legal title to any unlicensed animal captured within the municipality
jurisdiction and impounded at the shelter for a period longer than five days
after giving notice. All animals shall be destroyed and buried in a humane
manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found
for such animal. or if a suitable animal shelter will accept transfer and
possession of the animal.
('75 Code, § 6-116) (Am. Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 668, passed 5-11-
22)
Statutory reference:
   Pounds authorized, Neb. RS 17-548
§ 94.59 ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a dog or cat within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
(Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.60 KENNEL CERTIFICATES; DENIAL.
   To enable the owner of any kennel to have the same licensed under the
provisions of this chapter, such owner shall present to the Municipal Clerk a
certificate or other information showing compliance with all laws and
regulations pertaining to dog and cat kennels from the Municipal Zoning
Administrator, the Board of Health, and the Nebraska Humane Society. No kennel
shall be maintained nor shall a license be issued to a kennel that creates a
nuisance in the immediate neighborhood through noise, odor, or unsanitary
conditions. Upon written or oral complaints filed with the Municipal Clerk that
any kennel has excessive noise, odor, or ordinance violations, said complaint
may result in loss of the holder's license or impoundment or penalty as
otherwise provided by this code.
(Neb. RS 17-526) (Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04)
§ 94.61 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog or cat owned, kept, or
harbored by the owner, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such dog or cat, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(`75 Code, § 6-114) (Am. Ord.458, passed 5-12-04) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory liability, Neb. RS 54-601
   Joint liability, Neb. RS 54-602
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Whenever any person is alleged to have violated any of the provisions
of this chapter, he or she may execute a waiver of appearance and enter a plea
of guilty by signing, completing, and complying with the cited item or items on
a waiver form provided by the governing body of the municipality. At the time
of such waiver and plea of guilty, he or she must pay the fine hereinafter set
forth for the violation or violations charged, in order to avail himself or
herself of the benefits herein provided. For each violation charged, the
following citation fees apply:
      (1)   First violation - $50 plus $25 per day confinement fee;
      (2)   Second violation - $75 plus $25 per day confinement fee;
      (3)   Third violation - $100 plus $25 per day confinement fee;
      (4)   Add $25 for each subsequent violation plus $25 per day confinement
fee.
   (B)   At the time of the commission of the alleged violation, the accused
may be served with a printed notice allowing him or her to avail himself or
herself of the provisions of this section with the period of time before the
date specified thereon. and in the event that he or she chooses not to avail
himself or herself of the benefits hereof, he or she shall be prosecuted for
violation of a misdemeanor, and assessed a fine in accordance with the schedule
as set forth in the section, and the court costs.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall retain as part of his or her records the
copy of the notice given to the violator and presented at the time the benefits
of this section are accepted, and he or she shall from said notices prepare a
report showing the number of the notice, the name of the violator, the date of
the offense and the amount of the fine collected by him or her. All fines shall
be paid to the Municipal Clerk and posted to the General Fund for
administrative purposes. All citations and applicable assessed fees shall be
paid by cash, money order, cashier check, or credit card prior to the release
of any dog or cat that was impounded.
(Ord. 458, passed 5-12-04; Am. Ord. 668, passed 5-11-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
112.   TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
110.01   Definitions
110.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person; prohibited
110.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
110.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi- public property
110.05   Drinking on public property; possession of open alcoholic beverage
container
110.06   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
110.07   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
Licenses Required
110.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
110.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
110.22   Reserved
110.23   Licensee requirements
110.24   Licenses; village powers and duties
110.25   Licensed premises; inspections
110.26   License renewal; municipal powers and duties
110.27   Catering licenses
110.28   Display of license
110.29   Owner of premises or agent; liability
110.30   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employer
110.31   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
110.50   Location
110.51   Access to dwellings
110.52   Sanitary conditions
110.53   Hours of sale
110.54   Credit sales prohibited
110.55   Reserved
110.56   Original package required
110.57   Minor's presence restricted
110.58   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of alcoholic regulations in this Code of Ordinances, the
definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01 through 53-103.42 shall be used.
(Neb. RS 53-103) (`75 Code, § 10-101) (Am. Ord. 508, passed 3-8-11)
§ 110.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (`75 Code, § 10-113) (Am. Ord. 522, passed 1-10-12) Penalty,
see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-135
§ 110.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. 53-186.01)
(`75 Code, § 10-120) (Am. Ord. 359, passed 6-6-00; Am. Ord. 520, passed 1-10-
12) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory restrictions and exceptions, Neb. RS 53-186 and 53-186.01
§ 110.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state-, county-, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) (`75 Code, § 10-122) (Am. Ord. 193, passed 4-3-84; Am. Ord.
614, passed 1-14-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; POSSESSION OF OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
CONTAINER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle
to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is
located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality, or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this municipality.
   (C)   For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. 
         (a)   Beer, ale porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description containing one-
half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor,
         (b)   Wine of not less than one-half of one percent of alcohol by
volume, or
         (c)   Distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      (2)   HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the
right-of-way.
      (3)   OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS
53-123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(C), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      (4)   PASSENGER AREA means the area designed to seat the driver and
passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily
accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions,
including any compartments in such area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the
area behind the last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not
normally occupied by the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not
equipped with a trunk.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08) (Ord. 360, passed 6-6-00)
§ 110.06 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) (Ord. 516, passed 4-12-11)
§ 110.07 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53-103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, CONSUME, MINOR, SALE, and TO SELL.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in § 110.20, no minor may sell, dispense,
consume, or have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic
liquor in any tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys,
roads, or highways, upon property owned by the state or any subdivision
thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but
not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, or upon
property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, except that a minor may
consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a
bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his or her permanent place
of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) (Ord. 517, passed 4-12-11)
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 110.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (`75 Code, § 10-102) (Am. Ord. 398, passed 12- 3-02; Am.
Ord. 573, passed 3-14-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person
importing alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping
license or its equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for
use by such person's family or guests, if the total amount imported by such
person in any one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
(Am. Ord. 575, passed 3-14-17) (`75 Code, § 10-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22 RESERVED.
§ 110.23 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) (`75 Code, § 10-106) (Am. Ord. 191, passed 4-3-94; Am. Ord.
509, passed 3-8-11; Am. Ord. 576, passed 3-14-17; Am. Ord. 634, passed 2-9-21)
§ 110.24 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)    The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the city, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in section 14 of this act. The local
governing body shall electronically notify the commission within five days
after authorization of any permit pursuant to this subdivision.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
(`75 Code, § 10-109) (Am. Ord. 191, passed 4-3-84; Am. Ord. 361, passed 6-6-00;
Am. Ord. 399, passed 12-3-02; Am. Ord. 471, passed 12- 14-04; Am. Ord. 510,
passed 3-8-11; Am. Ord. 524, passed 1-10-12; Am. Ord. 577, passed 3-14-17; Am.
Ord. 635, passed 2-9-21; Am. Ord. 662, passed 2-8-22)
Statutory reference:
   Additional powers and duties; hearings and the like, Neb. RS 53-134(2) and
(3)
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.25 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01) (Am. Ord. 472, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 636, passed 2-9-
21)
§ 110.26 LICENSE RENEWAL; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the commission in the absence of a
written request by the governing body to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the municipality shall file a formal application for a license,
and while such application is pending, the licensee may continue all license
privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If
such license expires within 60 days following the annexation date of such area,
the license may be renewed by order of the commission for not more than one
year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the municipality, one time between January 10
and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of
the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within
the municipality, except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class
C licenses shall be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each
year. If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are
filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk by three or more residents of the
municipality on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the
governing body shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the
license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this
section, the governing body may request a licensee to submit an application as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
(`75 Code, § 10-108) (Am. Ord. 143, passed 12-4-79; Am. Ord. 191, passed 4-3-
84; Am. Ord. 473, passed 12-14-04)
Statutory reference:
   State license renewal procedures, Neb. RS 53-135 and 53-135.01
§ 110.27 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided for other alcoholic liquor
retail licenses.
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The governing body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
governing body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
('75 Code, § 10-125) (Ord. 228, passed 7-1-86; Am. Ord. 362, passed 6-6-00; Am.
Ord. 400, passed 12-3-02; Am. Ord. 474, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 513, passed
3-8-11)
§ 110.28 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) (`75 Code, § 10-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.29 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use such licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any municipal
ordinance, such owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as such licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) (`75 Code, § 10-110)
§ 110.30 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYER.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any municipal ordinance
by any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee,
if such act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge,
or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and such employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (`75 Code, § 10-111)
§ 110.31 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the governing body stating that any retail licensee subject to
the jurisdiction of the governing body has been or is violating any provision
of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant
to the Act. Such complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the
governing body and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The
complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or regulation believed to
have been violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the
governing body is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a
violation and that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for such
belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within ten days from the date of
the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the
time and place of such hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint.
The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the governing body within 30
days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which
resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04) (Am. Ord. 475, passed 12-14-04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 110.50 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons
or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet.
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
(`75 Code, § 10-103) (Am. Ord. 511, passed 3-8-11; Am. Ord. 523, passed 1-10-
12; Am. Ord. 567, passed 4-12-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 110.51 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) (Am. Ord. 574, passed 3-14-17) (`75 Code, § 10-104) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 110.52 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the governing body or the municipal police
may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be
viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
(`75 Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, Neb. RS 53-118
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.53 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that
the Board of Trustees with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the
village may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)    If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of
Board of Trustees, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off
the premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)    Alcoholic liquor, including beer, may be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the village on any day between the hours 6:00
a.m. and 1:00 a.m. the following day, not excluding Sunday as hereby amended.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179)
(`75 Code, § 10-117) (Am. Ord. 192, passed 4-3-84; Am. Ord. 242, passed 5-5-87;
Am. Ord. 272, passed 12-13-89; Am. Ord. 274, passed 5-1-90; Am. Ord. 477,
passed 2-8-05; Am. Ord. 512, passed 3-8-11; Am. Ord. 534, passed 2-12-13; Am.
Ord. 552, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 643, passed 7-13-21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to alter statutory hours, Neb. RS 53-179
§ 110.54 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (`75 Code, § 10-114) (Am. Ord. 521, passed 1-10-12; Am. Ord.
555, passed 4-14-15) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.55 RESERVED.
§ 110.56 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) (`75 Code, § 10-116) (Ord. 295, passed 4-7-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.57 MINOR'S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.58 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser's name and
address, and the number of the purchaser's motor vehicle operator's license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser's signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the
retail establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months.
The records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by
any law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other
reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) with an altered or removed
keg identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02 and 53-167.03) (Am. Ord. 566, passed 4-12-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
2017 S-13
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
111.01   Mobile food trucks and trailers (enclosed)
§ 111.01 MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS AND TRAILERS (ENCLOSED).
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or
peddle food from a mobile food truck or mobile food vending unit upon any
property within the municipal limits of the Village of Murray, including, but
not limited to, streets, sidewalks, parking lots, parks, and private property
without first having obtained a permit from the village in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   Persons may apply for a permit to operate a mobile food truck or a
mobile food vending unit by filing with the Village Clerk a fully completed and
signed application on a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk, which lists
all required information.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a fully completed and signed application, submitted in
accordance with division (A) above, the Chairman and/or Village Clerk shall
either approve or deny the permit. Grounds for denial may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   A finding that the application is incomplete;
      (2)   Nonpayment of applicable fees;
      (3)   A finding that the application is not in conformity with any
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, this section;
      (4)   A finding that the proposed location of the applicant will impede
vehicle traffic or pedestrian traffic, or cause safety concerns;
      (5)   A finding that the statements within the application are materially
untrue or incorrect;
      (6)   Previous revocations or suspension of permits issued under this
section or similar sections of other municipalities;
      (7)   Insufficient or unacceptable plans for the disposal of grease,
water, or other waste;
      (8)   Issuance of the permit is not in the best interests of the village.
   (C)   Food Trucks Permit Holders must follow the standards as outlined in
Supplement No. 1 entitled "Mobile Food Trucks and Trailers (Enclosed)
Standards" as approved in conjunction with this section and which is by this
reference incorporated, as if fully set forth, herein.
   (D)   Permits issued under this section are nontransferable and no such
permit shall be used at any time outside of the hours stated in the permit, nor
by any person other than the person to whom the permit was issued.
   (E)   The non-refundable fee for a mobile food truck vendor permit or mobile
food vending unit permit under this section shall be set as per the Village of
Murray Annual Fee Schedule.
   (F)   Permit holders shall conduct their activities in strict conformity
with this permit, including, but not limited to, adhering to their plan for
disposal of grease, water, and other waste.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of this
section. Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less than $250 nor more
than $500. Each day that a violation of any of the provisions of this section
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   (H)   A permit issued under this section may be revoked or suspended by the
Village Chairperson, Board of Trustees, or Village Clerk for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the permit;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of food;
      (3)   Operating in contravention of the parameters of the permit;
      (4)   Any unlawful activity of the permit holder, including any violation
of this section; or
      (5)   Operating in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace
or a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (I)   When the Village Chairperson, Board of Trustees, or Village Clerk
revokes or suspends a permit or a permit application is denied, the Village
Clerk shall mail a notice of such revocation, suspension, or denial to the
address of the permit holder or applicant, as set forth on the application
form. Such permit holder or applicant may file an appeal with the Village
Clerk. The request for an appeal shall be in writing to the Village Clerk and
must be received within 30 days of the date the Village Clerk mailed notice of
the revocation, suspension, or denial. If no timely request for an appeal is
made, the initial decision shall be final. If a timely request for appeal is
received, the appeal shall be heard by the Village Board of Trustees at a
regularly scheduled meeting with notice mailed to the permit holder or
applicant at least 14 days prior to the meeting.
(Ord. 678, passed 9-12-23)
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
112.01   Definitions
112.02   Sale of display without a license
112.03   Sale or display without vendor assistance
112.04   Display of license
112.05   License to sell; issuance
112.06   License application
112.07   License term; fees
112.08   Rights of licensee
112.09   Disposition of fees
112.10   Transfer of license
112.11   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
Minors
112.15   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
112.16   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
112.17   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
 
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Tobacco use prohibited in recreational parks and playgrounds, see §
130.36
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any sole proprietorship, joint venture, corporation or other
business entity, including retail establishments, where goods or services are
sold.
   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or other
legal entity.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Any open display of tobacco or tobacco products
and point-of-sale tobacco-related promotional products to which customers have
access without the assistance or intervention of an employee.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT.  Any tobacco cigarette or cigar, pipe tobacco, smokeless
tobacco, chewing, inhalation, or other means of ingestion.
   TOBACCO RETAILER. Any person or entity operating a store, stand, booth,
concession, or other place which sells tobacco or tobacco products to customers
for consumption or use, whether utilized primarily for the sale of tobacco or
tobacco products or in which the sale of tobacco or tobacco products is
incidental.
   TOBACCO VENDING MACHINE. Any electronic or mechanical device utilizing the
insertion of money, whether coin or paper currency, or other things of value,
which dispenses or releases tobacco or tobacco products.
   VENDOR-ASSISTED ACCESS. Access to tobacco or tobacco products only with the
assistance of a store employee so that customers do not have direct access to
take possession without assistance from a store employee.
(Ord. 493, passed 8-12-08)
§ 112.02 SALE OR DISPLAY WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization, within the
municipality:
   (A)   To sell, permit to be sold, or offer for sale tobacco and tobacco
products to any person without first obtaining a tobacco license from the
Village Clerk.
   (B)   To sell, permit to be sold, offer for sale, or give away tobacco or
tobacco products to or for any minor.
(Ord. 493, passed 8-12-08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 SALE OR DISPLAY WITHOUT VENDOR ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization, within the
municipality:
      (1)   To sell, permit to be sold, or offer for sale tobacco or tobacco
products to any person by means other than vendor-assisted access, or
      (2)   To display tobacco or tobacco products in a manner allowing
customers access to tobacco or tobacco products without vendor assistance, or
      (3)   To give away, hand out or otherwise distribute free samples of
cigarettes or other tobacco products, or coupons that can be redeemed for free
samples of cigarettes or other tobacco products, or
      (4)   To sell tobacco products in any form except original factory-
wrapped packages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to tobacco vending machines regulated by
Nebraska state law, tobacco retail stores, or to any business, retailer or
establishment which is licensed by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for a
dispensing license and required to be posted preventing any minors from access
to the premises, nor shall this chapter apply to other forms of sale or
distribution which is specifically allowed by federal or state law. This
exception shall not apply to the sale of tobacco or tobacco products by vending
machine or other similar distribution method which is not regulated by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission or by other state or federal laws.
(Ord. 493, passed 8-12-08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 493, passed 8-12-08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to persons 21 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, and
corporations by the Village Clerk upon application duly made as provided in
this chapter.
(Neb. RS 28-1421) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 615, passed 1- 14-20; Am.
Ord. 637, passed 2-9-21)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 112.06 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the Village
Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter. If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant's
social security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-15)
§ 112.07 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco in
any form, at wholesale, shall pay a license fee of $100, and if such combined
annual sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler's license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler's combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco in
every form have not exceeded in the aggregate 150,000 annually and that such
sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for the current year for which the
license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be
guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler's license shall be revoked until the
full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 616, passed 1- 14-20)
§ 112.08 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in this chapter, when issued, authorizes the
sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes, and
cigarette material by the licensee and employees, to persons 21 years of age or
over, at the place of business described in the license for the term therein
authorized, unless the license is forfeited as a result of court action as
provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 617, passed 1- 14-20; Am.
Ord. 638, passed 2-9-21)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 112.09 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the Village Clerk to the treasurer of the school fund for
the village.
(Neb. RS 28-1426) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-15)
§ 112.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the Village Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the
purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the Clerk
may transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-15)
§ 112.11 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429) (Ord. 556, passed 4-14-15)
MINORS
§ 112.15 USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine
products, or use tobacco in any form whatever in the village, shall be guilty
of an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free
from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the
person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or
tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) (Ord. 553, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 618, passed 1- 14-20; Am.
Ord. 639, passed 2-9-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any
form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person
under 21 years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) if this section, a person who is at
least 15 years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with such division if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such
duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with an
under the authority of this division shall not be in violation of Neb. RS 28-
1427.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) (Ord. 553, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 619, passed 1-14-20; Am.
Ord. 640, passed 2-9-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.17 MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in §
112.16(B), any person under the age of 21 years who obtains cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes, or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery systems, or
alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he
or she is of the age of 21 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) (Ord. 553, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 620, passed 1-14-20; Am.
Ord. 641, 2-9-21)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 493, passed 8-12-08)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
130.01   Fireworks
130.02   Disturbing the peace
130.03   Maintaining a nuisance
130.04   Prohibited fences
130.05   Appliances in yard
130.06   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
130.07   Discharge of firearms
130.08   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
130.09   Disorderly conduct
130.10   Obstruction of public ways
130.11   Abandoned automobiles
130.12   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
130.13   Obstructing a peace officer
130.14   Gambling
130.15   Public indecency
130.16   Peddlers and solicitors
Park Offenses
130.30   Park destruction
130.31   Alcoholic possession in parks
130.32   Park games
130.33   Solicitation in parks
130.34   Discharge of firearms in park
130.35   Water supply of parks
130.36   Use of tobacco products in recreational areas, parks and playgrounds
130.37   Criminal trespass
 
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Fireworks, as defined as it is in Neb. RS 28-1241, shall mean any
composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which meets the
definition of consumer or special fireworks set forth by the United States
Department of Transportation in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, and lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths-inch in
length or one-eighths-inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than 50
milligrams each in weight of explosive material.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to light, ignite, or discharge any fireworks
except (i) from June 25 through July 5 and December 29 through January 1; and
(ii) other than as provided herein, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m.; (iii) provided that on the dates of July 4 and December 31 fireworks may
be discharged from 8:00 a.m. through 12:00 midnight.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or light, ignite, or
discharge any fireworks on, within, or onto any village recreational facility
or park at any time, except professional fireworks shows authorized under a
permit from the State Fire Marshal and approved by the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever, or to erect or maintain a fireworks retail sales
location inside the Murray village corporate limits without application and
approval by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (1)   Application must be filed with the village clerk upon forms
supplied by the village and must include information deemed necessary by the
village. Including application fee in accordance with the fee schedule
resolution; proof of liability insurance; the permit issued by the State Fire
Marshal; hours and dates of operation, which dates must be within the allowable
sales dates as provided in this §
130.01; type of structure and location, and name of owner of the location;
         (a)   Applications for the sales period from June 24 through July 5
must be submitted to the Village Clerk not later than 4:00 p.m. on May 31 for
consideration by the Board of Trustees at its June meeting.
         (b)   Applications for the sales period from December 28 through
January 1 must be submitted to the Village Clerk not later than 4:00 p.m. on
November 30 for consideration by the Board of Trustees at its December meeting.
         (c)   An application, together with the fee, must be submitted for
each location and a separate license is required for each location.
(`75 Code, § 6-309) (Am. Ord. 676, passed 4-11-23)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Permissible fireworks defined, Neb. RS 28-1241
   Unlawful fireworks prohibited, Neb. RS 28-1244
§ 130.02 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (`75 Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 28-1321(1)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
(`75 Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent nuisances, Neb. RS 17-207, 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited by state law, Neb. RS 28-1321
   Barbed wire fences regulated, Neb. RS 39-307
§ 130.05 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 18-1720
and 28-1321
§ 130.06 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the
lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth
of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
municipality shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is
given by first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the
municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a
written appeal with the office of the Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be
held within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the municipality may have
such work done. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) (`75 Code, § 6-322) (Ord. 172, passed 7-5-83; Am. Ord. 91,
passed 8-6-91; Am. Ord. 476, passed 2-8-05; Am. Ord. 540, passed 3-11-14; Am.
Ord. 583, passed 3-14-17; Am. Ord. 598, passed 6-12-18)
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority to regulate nuisances, Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 130.07 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the municipality, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the
persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing
body.
(`75 Code, § 6-308) (Am. Ord. 158, passed 2-2-82) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.08 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, or using of obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places or which is otherwise indecent or disorderly
conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent intoxication, Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.10 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalty provisions, Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 130.11 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid in transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public ;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway , alley, or
park or other state, county, or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
village. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the village
shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the village shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any,
is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this subsection is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(a)(5) or (b)(4) under definition ABANDONED VEHICLE of this section to be
removed from public property in this village, the state agency shall be
entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an abandoned
vehicle described in division (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) or(b)(1), (b)(2), or
(b)(3) under definition ABANDONED VEHICLE of this section to be removed from
public property in this village, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to
the village which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village's
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner's agent, owner's employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), or (a)(4) or(b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)
(3) under definition ABANDONED VEHICLE of this section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty
of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
(`75 Code, § 6-323) (Am. Ord. 111, passed 3-1-77; Am. Ord. 363, passed 6-6-00;
Am. Ord. 549, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 663, passed 2-8-22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional regulations, Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 130.12 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the
municipality, other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant,
occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled,
inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on such property
longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid In Transit sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the municipality.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(`75 Code, § 6-324) (Ord. 112, passed 3-1-77; Am. Ord. 498, passed 7-14-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   "In Transit" stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
§ 130.13 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)    A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer's official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the state or any county, city, or village for the purpose of
assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb RS 28-906) (Ord. 535, passed 2-12-13)
§ 130.14 GAMBLING.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor, or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) of this
section if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as
required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the
owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted
unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises
of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prirna facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this
village and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used, or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant's status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the Nebraska Racetrack Gaming Act.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
(Ord. 621, passed 1-14-20; Am. Ord. 664, passed 2-8-22)
§ 130.15 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806) (Ord. 622, passed 1-14-20)
§ 130.16 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthy goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all non-resident
salespersons, peddlers, and solicitors shall register with the Village Clerk
and obtain a permit before doing business with the village. The permit fee is
$50 per day. Any non-resident salesperson who is not able to show proof of
permit may be subject to penalty.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The registration/permit form supplied by the Clerk shall contain all
necessary information required for the protection of the residents of the
village. All peddlers and solicitors shall be subject to any fees, occupation
taxes, and other rules and regulations which the Village Board deems
appropriate for the purposes stated herein.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, or salesperson to
solicit any individual or residence between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. unless the vendor has previously arranged an appointment with the resident
or at the residence location.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful at any hour for a peddler, solicitor, or
salesperson to solicit without keeping a valid permit from the village on their
person at all times.
   (E)   The provisions of §
130.16 shall not extend to any person or persons selling produce raised within
the village or to representatives of a non-profit or charity organization
soliciting on behalf of that organization including churches, Boy Scouts, or
Girl Scouts.
(Ord. 672, passed 11-9-22)
PARK OFFENSES
§ 130.30 PARK DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the limits of the
municipal parks willfully or maliciously to damage in any manner or destroy any
real or personal property of any description.
(`75 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Operation and funding; regulations, §§
90.01 through
90.03
§ 130.31 ALCOHOLIC POSSESSION IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to have in his or her
possession any alcoholic beverages within the limits of the municipal parks.
(`75 Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.32 PARK GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in any activities
or games within the municipal parks that may endanger the health, life, or
welfare of any of its participants or bystanders.
(`75 Code, § 6-318) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.33 SOLICITATION IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, groups, or organizations to
conduct games, displays, or group gatherings in the municipal parks when
donations are indicated, without the express consent of the Board of Trustees.
(`75 Code, § 6-319)
§ 130.34 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS IN PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm, including air
rifles, pellet guns, and sling shots, at any time in any municipal park.
(`75 Code, § 6-320)
§ 130.35 WATER SUPPLY OF PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful to deface, mutilate, or climb on the municipal water
towers. It shall be unlawful to utilize the municipal water supply for watering
grass in the parks or other municipal property without the express approval of
the governing body.
(`75 Code, § 6-321) (Ord. 180, passed 3-6-84)
§ 130.36 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN RECREATIONAL AREAS, PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, TOBACCO means any tobacco
product (including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, and smokeless
tobacco), electronic nicotine delivery systems (such as e-cigarettes),
alternative nicotine products, tobacco product look-a-likes and products
intended to replicate tobacco products either by appearance or effect.
   (B)   Designated tobacco-free areas. All recreational parks and playgrounds,
including Memorial and Young Park in the Village of Murray, are designated
tobacco-free, and the use of any tobacco product in any form shall be
prohibited hereafter.
   (C)   Signs. Tobacco-Free Park signs or other appropriate signage will be
posted delineating the tobacco-free areas.
(Ord. 588, passed 3-13-18)
§ 130.37 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed. (Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon,
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, unmanned aircraft means an aircraft,
including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(5) of this section.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person. (Neb. RS 28-521) (Ord. 675,
passed 2-14-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
Ord. 672, passed 11-9-22)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Inspections
150.01   Intergovernmental agreement with county for issuance of building
permits and inspections
150.02   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
Building Permits
150.20   Requirements
150.21   Limitation
150.22   Duplicate to county assessor
Moving of Buildings
150.40   Regulations
150.41   Deposit forfeited
Unsafe Buildings
150.60   Definition
150.61   Prohibitions
150.62   Determination; notice
150.63   Hearing and appeal
150.64   Emergency
150.65   Special assessments
Manufactured Homes
150.80   Standards
Vacant Buildings
150.90   Definitions
150.91   Program administrator
150.92   Registration of property; duty of owner; information required; fee;
exemptions
150.93   Subsequent owners
150.94   Plan for occupancy
150.95   Occupancy and removal from data base
150.96   Appeals
150.97   Building inspections
150.98   Fines for noncompliance; collection of fees; lien
BUILDING INSPECTIONS
§ 150.01 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT WITH COUNTY FOR ISSUANCE OF BUILDING
PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   The municipality has entered into an agreement with the county for the
purpose of issuing building permits and building inspections, as set forth in
the agreement, which is hereby made a part of this code of ordinances, along
with all future revisions of the agreement.
(`75 Code, § 9-205)
§ 150.02 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or construct any swimming
pool, spa or hot tub in the limits of the village without:
      (1)   Obtaining the required permit from the county;
      (2)   Providing a copy of said permit to the village; and
      (3)   Obtaining approval from the village that said structure is in
compliance with village laws and regulations.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined $150 for the first offense and
$300 for the second and subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 605, passed 9-10-19)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.20 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the
same to be done, shall file with the Municipal Clerk an application for a
building permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished
by the Municipal Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth
the legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is
to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions,
the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such
other information as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and
specifications so filed with the Municipal Clerk shall be checked and examined
by the governing body, and if they are found to be in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the
governing body shall authorize the Municipal Clerk to issue the said applicant
a permit upon the payment of a permit fee of $25.
   (B)   A building permit shall be effective for 24 months from the date of
the issuance, after which a new permit must be applied for.
   (C)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern.
(`75 Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 237, passed 11-5-86; Am. Ord. 279, passed 8-7-90; Am.
Ord. 602, passed 5-14-19; Am. Ord. 623, passed 1-14-20)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for specific safety-related regulations, Neb. RS 17-550
   Extra-territorial jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 150.21 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued
for a period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be
resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an
original permit.
(`75 Code, § 9-201.01) (Ord. 141, passed 12-4-79)
§ 150.22 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
    Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or
repair of any building within the village's corporate limits or
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a
duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (`75 Code, § 9-202) (Am. Ord. 453, passed 1-13-04; Am. Ord.
606, passed 10-8-19; Am. Ord. 665, passed 2-8-22)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.40 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk and shall include the
present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route,
the equipment to be used, and such other information as the governing body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk shall
refer the said application to the governing body for approval of the proposed
route over which the said building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
governing body, the Municipal Clerk shall then issue the said permit, provided
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the governing body and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or municipal property is filed with the
Municipal Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten feet wide or less, and 20 feet long or
less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet high or less. In the event it
will be necessary for any licensed building mover to interfere with the
telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the company or companies
owning, using, or operating the said poles, wires, or line shall upon proper
notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting the said
poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense of
the said disconnection, removal, or related work shall be paid in advance by
the licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished on different terms
as provided in the said company's franchise. Whenever the moving of any
building necessitates interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or
wire belonging to the municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of
the said building moving operation shall be given to the various municipal
officials in charge of the municipal utility departments who shall proceed in
behalf of the municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(`75 Code, § 9-203)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle size, weight, and load regulations, Neb. RS 60-6,288 through 60-
6,299
§ 150.41 DEPOSIT FORFEITED.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the county building
inspector shall inspect the premises and report to the Municipal Clerk as to
the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether
any municipal laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a
satisfactory report from the county building inspector, the Municipal Clerk
shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the
applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not
properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the governing
body may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of
correcting the said conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous
condition is greater than the amount of the deposit set by motion of the
governing body, as required herein, the governing body may recover such excess
expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
(`75 Code, § 9-204)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.60 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING as used in this subchapter is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure:
      (1)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (2)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair,
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
      (3)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable
to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of such
structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(`75 Code, § 9-401)
§ 150.61 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(`75 Code, § 9-402)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, Neb. RS 18-
1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.62 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Health is of the opinion that any building or
structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, the Board shall file a
written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall
thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly, shall file a copy of
such determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall
serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if
any, by certified mail or by personal service.
   (B)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. Such notice
may be in the following terms:
   “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the
premise known and described as _________________________________.
   “You are hereby notified that __________________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by
__________________________________________ . The causes for this decision are
__________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten days from the
date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within
60 days from the date of receipt of such notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon such person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to
remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(`75 Code, § 9-403)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, Neb. RS 18-
1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.63 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the governing body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
governing body shall grant such hearing within ten days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the governing body's decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the governing body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days from the
sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after the
60-day period the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall proceed to
cause such work to be done, provided that the property owner may appeal such
decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which proceedings
the decision of the governing body shall be stayed. Where the municipality has
not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating to bonded
indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
(`75 Code, § 9-404)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, Neb. RS 18-
1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.64 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the
municipality may summarily repair or demolish and remove such building or
structure.
(`75 Code, § 9-405)
§ 150.65 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(`75 Code, § 9-406) (Am. Ord. 287, passed 12-4-90)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, Neb. RS 18-
1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 150.80 STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in the
municipality if such manufactured home bears an appropriate seal which
indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the standards of the
Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles, the
Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, or the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements;
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches of each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
      (5)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock; and
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 CFR 3280 et seq.
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development;
or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing
Units Act.
(Ord. 344, passed 6-1-99)
Statutory reference:
   Building zones authorized, Neb. RS 19-902
VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION ACT
§ 150.90 DEFINITIONS.
    For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A building with more than 50% of its floor space used
for purposes other than residential.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. A building that has structural conditions which pose a
potential safety hazard to persons or property, and which shall include, but
not be limited to, a building:
      (1)   That is in danger of partial or complete collapse;
      (2)   That has exterior components that are loose or in danger of
falling;
      (3)   With any components, such as floors, porches, railings, stairs,
ramps, balconies, or roofs that are accessible and either have collapsed or are
in danger of collapsing, or which are unable to support the weight it is
intended to support; and
      (4)   That is in whole or in part open to entry by animals or
unauthorized persons without the use of tools, except for those buildings under
construction pursuant to a valid building permit issued by the village.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (2)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash, or other
waste;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (5)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
   MUNICIPALITY. A village.
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record on
the records of the register of deeds, the holder or an unrecorded contract for
deed, receiver, personal representative or trustee.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit
or building, or a trailer house.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   UNOCCUPIED BUILDING. A building which is not being used for a legal
occupancy. The storage of products and materials does not constitute occupancy
unless authorized by the village's zoning ordinances.
   UNSECURED. A building or portion of a building that is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools, or entry by animals.
   VACANT. That a residential building or commercial building exhibits evidence
of vacancy and being unoccupied. Vacant excludes properties for which a valid
building permit has been issued by the village.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.91 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The village shall appoint a program administrator to oversee the
registration of vacant properties.
   (B)   The program administrator or his or her designee shall have the power
to enforce the Vacant Property Registration Act and to accept the registration
form submitted by an owner.
   (C)   The program administrator shall create a registration form which the
owner shall submit to register a vacant property. The form may be in paper and
electronic form. The form shall require the following information:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number, and,
if applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner; and
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant.
   (D)   The program administrator shall give advance notice to property owners
of properties which appear to have been vacant for 180 days.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.92 REGISTRATION OF PROPERTY; DUTY OF OWNER; INFORMATION REQUIRED; FEE;
EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Owners of vacant property subject to this Act shall register any
vacant property with the program administrator after the property has been
vacant for 180 days.
   (B)   Registration fees.
      (1)   After 180 days has passed following registration, the owner shall
pay a registration fee if property has been vacant for 180 days after initial
registration of $250 for a residential property and $1,000 for a commercial
property.
      (2)   Every six months following the payment of the first fee, a
supplemental registration fee shall be paid every six months for as long as the
property remains on the vacant property registration data base. Each
supplemental registration fee shall be $500 for residential property and $2,000
for commercial property. The maximum supplemental registration fee for
residential properties shall be $2,500 and $10,000 for commercial property.
Registration fees are refundable for the year preceding the date on which the
property is no longer vacant, on a pro rated basis considering the number of
days vacant and the number of days occupied, or used for storage pursuant to
the village's zoning ordinances.
   (C)   Exemptions from registration and fees; damage by fire or weather.
      (1)   Vacant properties are exempt from registration and payment of fees
if the vacant property that is advertised in good faith for sale or lease.
      (2)   Vacant properties are exempt from registration and payment of fees
if:
         (a)   A seasonal residence;
         (b)   Damaged by fire, weather or vandalism;
         (c)   Under construction or renovation with a valid building permit
issued by the village;
         (d)   Where the owner is temporarily absent, but who has demonstrated
his or her intent to return; and
         (e)   Which is subject to divorce, probate, or estate proceedings.
   (D)   A building damaged from fire or nature shall be exempt from
registration for 90 days after the date of the fire or weather event so long as
the owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the village. The
program administrator shall prepare a notice of damage form for such exemption
request which shall include the following information to be supplied by the
owner:
      (1)   A description of the premises;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owner or owners;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the current/former tenant; and
      (4)   A statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.93 SUBSEQUENT OWNERS.
   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to the ordinance assume the
obligations of the previous owner or owners.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.94 PLAN FOR OCCUPANCY.
   Property which is no longer vacant shall be removed from the vacant property
registration data base. The owner shall notify the program administrator that
the vacancy has ended and arrange an inspection of the property by the program
administrator or his or her designee.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.95 OCCUPANCY AND REMOVAL FROM DATA BASE.
   Owners of vacant properties shall submit a plan to have the property
occupied.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.96 APPEALS.
   If a property owner receives notice that the owner's residence of commercial
property is considered vacant by the program administrator and disputes the
determination but the program administrator uphold his or her decision, the
owner shall have the right to appeal such determination following a public
hearing before the Village Board of Trustees. If disputed, before a final
determination is made by the program administrator, a notice of a right to
appeal to the Village Board shall be sent by certified mail to the registered
owner at the address maintained in the register of deeds' office at least ten
days prior to the program administrator advising of any adverse decision.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.97 BUILDING INSPECTIONS.
   The program administrator or his or her designee shall have the right to
inspect the interior and exterior of any vacant property upon registration and
at one-year intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the
vacant property registration data base.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
§ 150.98 FINES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE; COLLECTION OF FEES; LIEN.
   (A)   Any owner of a vacant property who had not registered a vacant
property in compliance with this Vacant Property Registration Act shall be
subject to citation and subsequent fine up to $500.
   (B)   The village may enforce collection of vacant property registration
fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. Unpaid vacant
property registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of a vacant
property registration ordinance shall become a lien on the applicable property
upon the recording of a notice of such lien in the office of the Cass County,
Nebraska Register of Deeds. The lien created under this subsection shall be
subordinate to all liens on the applicable property recorded prior to the time
the notice of such lien is recorded.
(Ord. 648, passed 12-14-21)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact and Purposes
151.01   Statutory authorization
151.02   Findings of fact
151.03   Statement of purpose
151.04   Adherence to regulations
General Provisions
151.10   Lands to which chapter applies
151.11   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
151.12   Compliance
151.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
151.14   Interpretation
151.15   Warning and disclaimer of liability
151.16   Amendments
151.17   Definitions
Floodplain Zoning District
151.30   Establishment of zoning districts
Floodplain Management Administration
151.40   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
151.41   Permits required
151.42   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
151.43   Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
151.44   Flood data required
151.45   Variance and appeals procedures
151.46   Conditions for variances
151.47   Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
151.60   General provisions
151.61   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
151.62   Design and construction standards
151.63   Nonconforming use
 
151.99   Penalties
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSES
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
    The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has delegated the responsibility
to local governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the
public health, safety, general welfare, and property of the people of the
state. The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city, or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood prone area.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of Murray, Nebraska, Nebraska are subject to inundation that results in
loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce
and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
151.02 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction.
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, its residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding.
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.04 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in Title 44 of the Code of Federal
Regulations and the Nebraska Minimum Standards for Floodplain Management
Programs as published in the Nebraska Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.10 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the
Murray, Nebraska identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panels
31025C0275D dated 11/26/2010 as Zones A, A1-30, AE, AO, or AH and within the
Zoning Districts FW and FF established in §
151.30. In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the Board of Trustees or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in §§
151.41 through
151.47 and §§
151.60 through
151.63.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.11 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts shall
be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board
of Amendment will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the
point in question shall be the governing factor in locating the district
boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the district
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the
Board of Amendment and to submit their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.12 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.14 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.15 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted
by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be
free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of Murray, Nebraska or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.16 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations provided,
however, that no such action may be taken until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in Murray, Nebraska or the
designated publisher set forth by resolution. At least seven days shall elapse
between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Nebraska Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.17 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application:
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain that would be inundated by the
0.2%  annual chance flood and delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are
expected to rise during a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as "appurtenant structure."
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and
roofed structure used exclusively for agricultural purposes or uses in
connection with the production, harvesting, storage, raising, or drying of
agricultural commodities and livestock, including aquatic organisms. Structures
that house tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses
are also considered to have agricultural purposes or uses.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety. Critical facilities include, but are
not limited to: facilities that produce, use, or store hazardous materials;
hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain vulnerable populations;
emergency support function facilities like police stations, fire stations,
vehicle and equipment storage facilities, and emergency operations centers;
public and private utility facilities vital to maintaining or restoring normal
services to flooded areas before, during, and after a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading,
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of  normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of FLOODING). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. Floodplain and special flood hazard area are the same for use by this
chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY OR REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage,  in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non- elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drain way), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building,
stored equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
obstructions if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act. See Neb. RS 46-1601 to 46-1670 as amended.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community's initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated January 5, 1978, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community's initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated January 5, 1978, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market  value of the structure before the
damage occurred. Cumulative costs shall include all costs for reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or other improvement of the structure to repair damage incurred
within ten years preceding the date of the floodplain development permit.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cumulative cost of which equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before START OF CONSTRUCTION
of the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either: (1) any project for improvement of a structure to
correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions,
or (2) any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a HISTORIC
STRUCTURE. Cumulative costs shall include all costs for reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or other improvement of the structure to repair damage incurred
within ten years preceding the date of the floodplain development permit and
shall include any costs resulting from substantial damage.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
FLOODPLAIN ZONING DISTRICT
§ 151.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby established as the floodplain overlay district, as identified in the
Flood Insurance Study dated 08/14/2024 and on accompanying FIRM panels as
established in §§
151.10-
151.15. The floodplain overlay district shall correspond to flood zones A, AE,
A1-30, AH, AO, AR, A99. Within this district, all uses not meeting the
standards of this chapter and those standards of the underlying zoning district
shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Clerk of the community is hereby designated as the community's local
Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and
directed to administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of this chapter.
If the local Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the Community
Chairperson shall assume the duties and responsibilities herein.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.41 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.42 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to
the following:
   (A)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits.
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to ensure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied.
   (C)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required.
   (D)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (E)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (F)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (G)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain.
   (H)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
   (I)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values.
   (J)   Ensure the comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent
with this chapter.
   (K)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.43 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
   (F)   Letters of map revision. Federal regulations in Title 44 of the Code
of Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Parts 65.5 and 65.6 allow for changes to the
special flood hazard area through a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) or a Letter
of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F), provided the community determines that
the land and any existing or proposed structures that would be removed from the
floodplain are "reasonably safe from flooding." The community acknowledgment
form asserting this is required for LOMR and LOMR-F applications and must be
signed by the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator shall not
sign a community acknowledgment form unless all criteria set forth in the
following divisions are met:
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F.
      (2)   Applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any existing or
proposed structures will be "reasonably safe from flooding," according to the
minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
      (3)   All requirements listed in the Simplified Approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the Engineered Approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.44 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If Flood Insurance
Study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the Flood Insurance
Study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.45 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Amendment as established by Murray, Nebraska shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Amendment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Amendment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
23-168 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912 (for municipalities).
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Board of Amendment shall
consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.46 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items E- H below have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure on
the National Register of Historic Places and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (G)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
   (H)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
   (I)   Agricultural structures. A variance is authorized to be issued for the
construction or substantial improvement of agricultural structures provided the
requirements of this section and the following are satisfied:
      (1)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock, or
storage of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses,
and will be restricted to such exclusive uses.
      (2)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage, and loss of function).
      (3)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety,
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including but not limited to
the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock confinement operations,
liquified natural gas terminals, and production and storage of highly volatile,
toxic, or water-reactive materials.
      (4)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of §
151.61(C).
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.47 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 151.60 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drain way shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drain way to the detriment
of upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the Nebraska Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments. When proposing to permit any of the following
encroachments, the standards in division (B)(3) shall apply:
      (1)   Any development in Zones A, A1-30, and Zone AE without a designated
floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood
elevation; or
      (2)   Alteration or relocation of a stream; then
      (3)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
Conditional Letter of Map Revision process (as per Title 44 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Part 65.12) prior to the permit for the
encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.61 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the FIRM or, if no depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as
three feet.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, floodproofed so that below one foot above the
base flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this division are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate shall be provided
to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§
151.40-
151.47.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM or, if no
depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as three feet; or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, floodproofed so that
below one foot above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. A floodproofing
certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§§
151.40-
151.47.
   (C)   Wet-floodproofing for agricultural structures by variance. When owners
elect to wet floodproof agricultural structures, the structure shall:
      (1)   Be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Have flood damage-resistant materials below the base flood
elevation in compliance with the definition in §
151.17 FLOOD DAMAGE RESISTANT MATERIALS.
      (3)   Have mechanical, electrical, and utility equipment elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that below one
foot above the base flood elevation they are:
         (a)   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water; and,
         (b)   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy.
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§
151.40-
151.47.
      (5)   Have flood openings in compliance with the following requirements:
The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit
of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade, and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (6)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (D)   Critical facilities. New construction or substantial improvement of
any critical facility is prohibited in all areas of the floodplain and the 0.2%
annual chance floodplain, unless all of the following provisions are met:
      (1)   No feasible alternative site exists for the construction of an
equivalent facility within the corporate or extraterritorial jurisdiction
boundaries of Murray, Nebraska;
      (2)   The facility has the lowest floor, including basement, of all
structures elevated to one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, floodproofed so
that below one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of the division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§
151.40-
151.47.
      (4)   If the 0.2% annual chance floodplain is not identified, the
facility shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to three
feet above the base flood elevation or be floodproofed to three feet above the
base flood elevation with the standards in division (C)(2) of this section.
      (5)   The facility has at least one access road connected to land outside
the 0.2% annual chance floodplain that is capable of carrying emergency support
vehicles and the top of the access road is no lower than the 0.2% annual chance
flood elevation.
   (E)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade, and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building may
have the lowest floor below one foot above base flood elevation provided that
the structure complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 800 square feet.
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement.
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
      (7)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade, and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (8)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated to or above one foot above the base flood
elevation or floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood elevation
they are:
         (a)   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, and
         (b)   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy.
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of this division are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§
151.40-
151.47.
      (9)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (10)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (G)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved within floodplains on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision,
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision,
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision,
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, or
         (e)   Be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division
(F)(7)(a) of this section be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation, or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F) of
this section.
      (3)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
151.62(H).
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (H)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions of divisions (G)(1) through (G)(3) shall
apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.62 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems. 
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   New or replaced septic systems in floodplains are prohibited.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone, and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for Conditional Letters of Map Revision and
Letters of Map Revision.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.63 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of six months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
§ 151.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate, or other entity that
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500, and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non- compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Murray, Nebraska or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-23-24)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Municipal Planning
152.01   Municipal limits defined
152.02   Original plats
152.03   Prohibited plats and transfers
152.04   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
Subdivisions and Additions
152.15   Subdivisions and additions permitted
152.16   Survey and plat
152.17   Streets and alleys
152.18   Approval of plat
152.19   Additions
Subdivision Regulations
152.30   Adopted by reference
MUNICIPAL PLANNING
§ 152.01 MUNICIPAL LIMITS DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official municipal map and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the governing body or by
law duly annexed to or made a part of this municipal or having been by the act,
authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their respective
owners, created either as the original townsite or as additions to the
municipality are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
municipality. Lawfully constituted additions or changes in the municipal limits
shall be indicated upon the maps and plat by the Municipal Engineer after the
addition or change has been completed in accordance with the ordinances of this
municipality and the laws of the state.
(`75 Code, § 11-101)
§ 152.02 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the municipality and
not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this subchapter, including the
original plat of the municipality, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed
as valid, and each and all of the lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and
outlots as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds and not heretofore vacated and all other parcels of ground, included
within the corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within the municipality
and an integral part thereof.
(`75 Code, § 11-102)
152.03 PROHIBITED PLATS AND TRANSFERS.
   Any person, whether as owner or proprietor or as the agent, attorney, or
representative of any owner or proprietor who shall plat or subdivide any tract
of land within the corporate limits of the municipality, or adjoining and
contiguous to the same, except as herein authorized, or who shall sell,
transfer, deed, or convey, or contract or agree to sell, transfer, or offer for
sale any lot or piece of ground in any addition or subdivision of three or more
parts within the corporate limits, or adjoining and contiguous thereto, without
having first obtained the acceptance and approval of the plat or map thereof by
the governing body, and any person who shall violate or who shall fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter, as now
existing or as hereafter amended, shall upon conviction be punished as provided
by §
10.99.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, Neb. RS 17-426
§ 152.04 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the village
is hereby designated as the village’s extraterritorial jurisdiction for the
purpose of exercising the powers and duties granted by Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-
1003 with respect to subdivisions and platting and Neb. RS 19-2402 with respect
to extension of water or sanitary sewer service. The boundaries of the
territory so designated shall be as shown on the official zoning map, a copy of
which is on file and available for public inspection in the office of the
Village Clerk.
(Ref. 17-1002 RS Neb.) (Ord. 401, passed 12-3-02)
SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 152.15 SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS PERMITTED.
   The proprietor or proprietors of any land within the corporate limits of the
village, or of any land within the area designated as the village’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. RS 17- 1002, may lay out such
land into lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other grounds under the
name of                          Addition to the Village of Murray and may
subdivide, plat, or lay out any such land upon conformance to and compliance
with the conditions in this code and state law.
(Neb. RS19-916) (`75 Code, § 11-201) (Am. Ord. 402, passed 12-3-02)
Statutory reference:
   Annexation generally, Neb. RS 17-405
   Similar provisions, Neb. RS 17-426
   Jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1002
   Authority to regulate, Neb. RS 17-1003
   Regulated zones permitted, Neb. RS 19-902
   Procedure, rights, and plat approval, Neb. RS 19-916
§ 152.16 SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who shall
subdivide the same into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out any
addition to the Village or any part thereof, or suburban lots, shall cause a
plat of such subdivision, with references to known or permanent monuments, to
be made, which shall accurately describe all subdivisions of such tract or
parcel of land, numbering the same by progressive numbers, and giving the
dimensions and length and breadth thereof, and the breadth and courses of all
streets and alleys established therein.
(Neb. RS 17-415)
   (B)   The map or plat of land within the corporate limits of the village or
of any land within the area designated as the village’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1002 shall designate explicitly the land so
laid out and particularly describe the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys,
and other grounds belonging to such addition. The lots shall be designated by
numbers, and streets, avenues, and other grounds, by names or numbers. Such
plat shall be acknowledged before some other officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds, and shall contain a dedication of the streets,
alleys, and public grounds therein to the use and benefit of the public, and
have appended a survey made by some competent surveyor with a certificate
attached, certifying that he or she has accurately surveyed such addition and
that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, parks, commons, and other
grounds are well and accurately staked off and marked. When such map or plat is
so made out, acknowledged, and certified, and has been approved by the Board of
Trustees, the same shall be filed and recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds and County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 19-916)
(`75 Code, § 11-202) (Am. Ord. 403, passed 12-3-02)
§ 152.17 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Streets and alleys laid out in any addition to or in any suburban
development of the municipality shall be continuous with and correspond in
direction and width to the streets and alleys of the municipality to which they
are an addition.
(Neb. RS 17-418) (`75 Code, § 11-205)
§ 152.18 APPROVAL OF PLAT.
   Before any map or plat shall have any validity, it must first be submitted
to and be approved and accepted by the governing body of the municipality, or
by its designated agent, when the subdivision is of existing lots and blocks,
where all required public improvements have been installed, no new dedication
of public rights-of-way or easements are involved, and the subdivision complies
with requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of the lots and
blocks. Where the county has both adopted a comprehensive development plan and
is enforcing subdivision regulations and the proposed subdivision plat both
contemplates public streets or improvements and lies partially or totally
within the extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction being exercised by the
county, then the County Planning Commission shall be given four weeks to
comment officially on the appropriateness of the design and improvements
proposed in the plat. The review period for the Commission shall run
concurrently with subdivision review activities of the municipality after the
Commission receives all available material for a proposed subdivision plat. The
map or plat must have such acceptance, and such acceptance and approval
endorsed thereon, provided that before any map or plat shall be considered,
approved, or accepted, the owner or proprietor shall pay or cause to be paid
all taxes, special taxes, and special assessments due thereon and shall produce
a certificate showing that all such taxes and assessments have been paid or
cancelled.
(`75 Code, § 11-206) (Am. Ord. 194, passed 4-3-84)
§ 152.19 ADDITIONS.
   All additions to the Village laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the Village shall remain a part of the Village. All
additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be
included within the corporate limits and become a part of the Village for all
purposes whatsoever at such time as the addition is approved as provided in
section 19-916 RS Neb. If the Board of Trustees includes the addition within
the corporate limits, the inhabitants of such addition shall be entitled to all
the rights and privileges and shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances,
rules, and regulations of the Village.
(Neb. RS 19-916) (`75 Code, § 11-208) (Am. Ord. 404, passed 12-3- 02)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, Neb. RS 17-405.04
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 152.30 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for harmonious development of the municipality and its environs;
for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light, air; for the distribution of population
and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions favorable to
health, safety, convenience, or prosperity; to insure conformance of
subdivision plans with capital improvements programs of the municipality; and
to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plans by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdivides and the Planning
Commission and the governing body, the Subdivision Regulations for the Village
of Murray, as prepared by the Village of Murray, and adopted by Ordinance
Number 461, June 8, 2004, including any amendments thereto as may be made
therein from time to time, are hereby incorporated by reference herein as if
set out in full. One copy of the Subdivision Regulations shall be kept on file
with the Municipal Clerk and available for public inspection during regular
office hours.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 19-922) (Ord. 461, passed 6-8-04)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
153.01   Zoning Regulations and Zoning Map; adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ZONING REGULATIONS AND ZONING MAP; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of setting minimums standards to promote the public
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of
the community of Murray, Nebraska and to lessen congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; and to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks and other public improvements, the Zoning Regulations of
the Village of Murray, presented and prepared by said Village are hereby
adopted. The adoption of such Zoning Regulations shall include any amendments
thereto as may be made from time to time. Said Zoning Regulations, as well as
such amendments, are hereby incorporated by reference in this section as if set
out in full. One copy of the zoning regulations shall be maintained by the
Municipal Clerk at the Village Office and shall be available for public
inspection during regular office hours.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 19-922)
   (B)   The Village of Murray, Nebraska and certain properties within and up
to one mile in all directions of its corporate limits are hereby divided into
zones, or districts, as shown on the official Zoning Map which, together with
all explanatory material and documentation is hereby adopted by reference,
declared to be part of the Zoning Regulations of the Village of Murray and
further declared to be part of this section. The official Zoning Map shall be
identified by the signature of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees,
attested to by the Municipal Clerk and bearing the seal of the Village under
the following words:
   "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in
Section 4.3 of Ordinance No. 460 of the Village of Murray, Nebraska, adopted
June 8, 2004. The official zoning map of the area within the corporate limits
and the planning jurisdiction area adjacent and one mile beyond the corporate
limits of the Village of Murray, together with all changes, amendments or
additions thereto, shall be maintained in the office of the Municipal Clerk and
available for public inspection during regular office hours."
(Ord. 460, passed 6-8-04)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Date Passed Description
Date Passed   Description
—  —      Granting a natural gas franchise to Peoples.
—  —      Granting a telephone and telecommunications franchise to Aliant.
              Granting a franchise to Nebraska Public Power to maintain and
—  —      operate a light and power system, to furnish electricity, and the
              like.
240  3-3-87   Granting a cable television system franchise to HillCom
              Communications, Inc.
              Granting a transfer of the cable television system franchise from
346  6-9-99   HillCom Communications, Inc., to Galaxy Telecom, L.PL., and
              amending the franchise in certain respects.
              Granting to Nebraska Public Power and Light a franchise for 25
459  5-12-04  years to erect, operate and maintain an electric light and power
              system in the village.
              Renewing the cable television franchise with Galaxy Cable, Inc.,
463  12-14-04 d/b/a Galaxy Cablevision and to change expiration date to March
              3, 2022.
             
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
364  2-6-00 Annexation of Tax Lot 37, containing 11,529 square feet, more or less.
366  9-5-00 Annexation of Tax Lot 38, containing 693,522.79 square feet (15.921 acres).
421  8-5-03 Annexation of Sublot 3 of Tax Lot 8.
422  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 1 of Tax Lot 36 and Sublot 2 of Tax Lot 36, containing
     03     3.24 acres, more or less.
423  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 1 of Tax Lot 8, containing 1.22 acres, more or less.
     03
424  9-16-  Annexation of an irregular tract of land located in Tax Lot 2, containing 2.77
     03     acres, more or less.
425  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 2 of Sublot 3 of Tax Lot 9, containing 2.74 acres, more
     03     or less.
426  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 1 of Sublot 3 of Tax Lot 9, containing 1.0 acres, more or
     03     less.
427  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 3 of Tax Lot 9, excluding Lot 1 and Lot 2 Gregg’s 2nd
     03     Addition.
428  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 2 of Tax Lot 8.
     03
429  9-16-  Annexation of Tax Lot 10, a fraction of Lot 7 and Lot 8
     03
     9-16-  Annexation of Tax Lot 7 and Tax Lot 8, except Tax Lot 10, except Sublot 3 of
430  03     Tax Lot 8 and Sublot 2 of Lot 8 and except Lot 1, Block 1, Fitzpatrick’s 4th
            Addition.
431  9-16-  Annexation of fraction of Tax Lot 11, east 100 feet of the west 210 feet of
     03     Sublot 2 of Lot 11.
432  9-16-  Annexation of Tax Lot 24, except the north 40 feet and the south five feet.
     03
433  9-16-  Annexation of fraction of Tax Lot 11, west 110 feet of Tax Lot 11.
     03
434  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 3 of Tax Lot 11, Sublot 5 of Tax Lot 11, Sublot 8 of Tax
     03     Lot 11, except a part of Sublot 5 of Lot 11.
435  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 10 of Tax Lot 11.
     03
436  9-016- Annexation of Sublot 6 of Tax Lot 11, Sublot 9 of Tax Lot 11, a part of Sublot
     03     5 of Tax Lot 11, including fractional part of Sublot 6 of Tax Lot 11.
437  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 4 of Tax Lot 11.
     03
438  9-16-  Annexation of Sublot 2 of Tax Lot 11, except west 210 feet.
     03
439  9-16-  Annexation of Lot 3 in the NE ¼ of the SE¼, Section 15, T11N, R13E.
     03
446  11-25- Annexation of Tax Lot 33.
     03
447  11-25- Annexation of State of Nebraska Highway 1 located in Section 15, T11N, R13E,
     03     Section 22, T11N, R13E, Section 14, T11N, R13E and Section 23, T11N, R13E.
           
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating that portion of West Railway Street lying east of
368      12-5-00     and immediately adjacent to the now vacated south half of
                     Block Three in the original Village of Murray.
485      12-12-06    Vacating the alley between East Campbell Street and Main
                     Street.
487      1-9-07      Vacating the alley between East Campbell Street and Main
                     Street.
488      2-13-07     Vacating the alley between East Campbell Street and Main
                     Street.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Statutes
References to 1975 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA STATUTES
Neb. R.S. Section Code Section
Neb. R.S. Section   Code Section
9-701               130.14
10-101 - 10-143     34.11
10-201 - 10-209     34.11
10-301 - 10-305     34.11
10-401 - 10-411     34.11
10-606 - 10-614     34.11
11-101              35.31
11-103 - 11-118     35.30
11-104              35.30
11-105              35.30
11-109              35.30
11-110              35.30
11-111              35.30
11-112              35.30
11-113              35.30
11-114              35.30
11-115              35.30
11-116              35.30
11-117              35.30
11-118              35.30
12-1001 - 12-1004   34.11
13-2013.02          53.09
13-2016.01          53.09
13-2039             53.09
13-310              93.31
13-312              93.31
13-314              93.31
13-403              93.10
13-503              34.35
13-504              34.32
13-505              34.32,
                    34.34
13-506              34.33,
                    34.39
13-507              34.33
13-508              34.34,
                    34.64
13-509              34.34,
                    34.63
13-509.01           34.31
13-509.02           34.31
13-519              33.07
                    34.33,
13-518 - 13-522     34.34,
                    34.39
13-606              34.02
13-609              34.15
13-2003             53.01
                    53.02,
13-2020             53.09,
                    53.10
13-2023             53.09,
                    53.10
13-2026             53.09,
                    53.10
16-318(3)           31.05
16-714 - 16-716     34.10
17-123              92.22
17-123.91           92.22
17-201 et seq.      33.03
17-202              33.03
17-202 - 17-204     30.01
17-202 - 17-210     30.03
                    35.10,
17-204              35.11,
                    35.12
17-205              35.11,
                    35.12
                    10.99,
                    30.02,
                    31.07,
17-207              94.02,
                    94.03,
                    130.04,
                    130.16
                    30.05,
                    31.01,
17-208              32.03,
                    92.01,
                    92.02
                    31.01,
17-209.02           31.03,
                    35.40
17-210              35.12
17-405              31.08,
                    152.15
17-405.04           152.19
17-415              152.16
17-418              152.17
17-426              152.01,
                    152.15
17-502              11.01
17-503              93.06
17-503.01           93.06
17-505              10.99,
                    30.20
17-509              93.50,
                    93.57
17-510              93.33
17-510 - 17-512     93.57
17-522              93.31
17-524              93.31
17-525              34.16,
                    130.16
                    94.44,
                    94.53,
17-526              94.55,
                    94.56,
                    94.60
17-529.01           34.11
17-529.08           34.11
17-531              32.30
17-534              32.30,
                    34.11
17-536              51.13
                    51.02,
                    51.05,
                    51.07,
17-537              51.10,
                    51.11,
                    51.14,
                    51.15,
                    51.17
17-538              50.05
17-539              51.12
17-540              34.08,
                    51.08
                    50.01,
17-542              51.06,
                    51.08,
                    51.09
                    94.01,
17-547              94.06,
                    94.07
17-548              94.58
17-549              91.02
17-550              150.20
                    92.40,
                    93.03,
17-555              93.04,
                    93.14,
                    130.10
                    91.02,
17-556              130.07,
                    130.09
                    72.13,
                    93.07,
17-557              93.30,
                    93.52 -
                    93.55,
                    130.10
17-557.01           93.07
17-558              93.51,
                    93.56
17-559              93.51,
                    93.56
17-563              130.06
17-567              93.02
17-568              31.07,
                    31.08
                    31.07,
17-568.01           31.08,
                    34.01
17-568.02           34.01
17-601.01           33.09
17-601.02           33.09
17-602              33.10
                    31.01,
17-604              31.09,
                    31.10,
                    35.30
17-605              31.04
17-606              31.05
17-606(2)           31.05
17-607              34.09
17-608              34.13
17-609              34.13
17-610              31.06
17-612              35.40
                    30.23,
                    30.25,
17-613              30.27,
                    30.28,
                    34.01
                    10.15,
17-614              30.24,
                    30.25,
                    30.29
17-615              30.27
17-616              30.25,
                    35.07
17-701              34.30
17-702              34.09,
                    34.61
17-706              34.37
17-708              34.05
17-710              34.07
17-711              34.04
17-714              34.03
17-715              34.03
17-720              34.10
17-901              52.03
17-902              52.03
17-905              34.11
17-908              34.11
17-911              34.11
17-913              31.07
17-919              31.07,
                    31.08
                    32.31,
17-925.01           50.01,
                    50.05,
                    52.05
17-925.02           52.04
17-939              34.11
17-948 - 17-952     90.01
17-953              93.08
17-953.01           93.08
17-954              93.08
17-958              34.11
17-968              34.11
17-1001             92.23,
                    150.20
                    152.04,
17-1002             152.15,
                    152.16
17-1003             152.15
18-132              152.30,
                    153.01
18-305 - 18-312     35.41
18-412.01           34.01
18-503              50.05
18-1001 - 18-1006   93.06
18-1208             34.16
18-1214             34.12
18-1216             34.06
18-1701             31.04
                    10.99,
                    30.02,
                    53.11,
                    92.20,
                    92.21,
                    92.40,
18-1720             92.99,
                    93.03,
                    130.04 -
                    130.06,
                    150.61,
                    150.62,
                    150.65
                    10.99,
                    92.99,
18-1722             150.61,
                    150.62,
                    150.65
18-1736             72.30,
                    72.31
                    72.31,
18-1737             72.32,
                    72.38
                    72.30,
18-1738             72.33,
                    72.39
18-1738.01          72.34,
                    72.39
18-1738.02          72.33,
                    72.34
18-1739             72.32,
                    72.35
18-1740             72.36
18-1741             72.37
18-1741.01          72.30
18-1741.01(2)       72.39
18-1741.04          72.39
18-1741.06          72.39
18-1743             150.22
18-1748             52.09
18-1751             93.11,
                    93.57
18-1752             53.06
18-1755             93.08,
                    93.09
18-1756             34.01
18-1801 - 18-1805   34.11
18-2102.01          32.01
18-2442 et seq.     93.32
18-2715             32.01
18-2803             34.38
18-2804             34.02,
                    34.38
18-2805             34.38
18-2806             34.38
18-2807             34.38
18-2808             34.38
19-710              92.38
19-901              32.01
19-902              152.15
19-903              32.01
19-911              32.02
19-912              151.45
                    32.01,
19-916              152.15,
                    152.16,
                    152.19
19-922              152.30,
                    153.01
19-925 - 19-933     32.01
19-926              32.01
19-927              32.01
19-928              32.01
19-929              32.01
19-930 - 19-933     32.01
19-1101             31.05
19-1101 et seq.     31.04
19-1102             31.04
19-1103             31.04,
                    31.05
19-1104             31.04
19-1301             34.08
19-1302             34.08
19-1303             34.08
19-1304             34.08
19-1302             34.08
19-1305             32.30
19-1309             34.60
19-1310             34.60
19-1311             34.60
19-1312             34.60
19-2427             93.12
19-2428 - 19-2431   93.11,
                    93.57
19-2428 et seq.     93.12
19-2901 - 19-2909   34.02
19-2903             34.02
19-2904             34.02
19-2905             34.02
19-3101             30.06
19-3701             30.28
20-203              94.52
21-1316.01          34.13
23-122              31.04
23-168              151.45
23-186              35.51
23-3513             34.11
24-1418             112.15
24-1419             112.16
24.1427             112.17
25-505.01           33.14
25-1801             50.04
25-21,275           50.04
25-21,276           50.04
25-21,277           50.04
25-21,278           50.04
28-109              94.52
Ch. 28, Art. 3      110.23
28-318              130.15
Ch. 28, Art. 4      110.23
28-431              130.11
28-515.02           50.03
28-520              94.52,
                    130.37
28-521              94.52,
                    130.37
28-523              90.03
Ch. 28, Art. 7      110.23
Ch. 28, Art. 8      110.23
28-806              130.15
28-833              130.14
28-906              130.13
Ch. 28, Art. 10     110.23
28-906              94.54
28-1004             94.04
28-1005             94.04
28-1005.04          94.94
                    10.16,
                    31.09,
28-1008             94.05,
                    94.20,
                    94.52,
                    94.57
                    94.05,
28-1009             94.20,
                    94.24,
                    94.57
28-1009.02          94.25
28-1009.03          94.25
28-1012             94.23
28-1013.01          94.52
28-1013.02          94.52
Ch. 28, Art. 11     110.23
28-1101             130.14
28-1102             130.14
28-1103             130.14
28-1104             130.14
28-1107             130.14
28-1108             130.14
28-1109             130.14
28-1110             130.14
28-1111             130.14
28-1112             130.14
28-1113             130.14
28-1117             130.14
Ch. 28, Art. 12     110.23
28-1241             130.01
28-1244             130.01
                    92.40,
28-1321             130.04,
                    130.05
28-1321(1)          130.03
28-1322             130.02
28-1420 - 28-1429   112.06
28-1420             112.05
28-1421             112.05
28-1422             112.06
28-1423             112.07
28-1424             112.08
28-1425             112.08,
                    112.11
28-1426             112.09
28-1427             112.16
28-1428             112.10
28-1429             112.11
28-1601             130.14
29-422 - 29-429     94.20,
                    94.23
31-1001 - 31-1023   151.01
32-110              33.10
32-115              33.10
32-401              33.01
32-404              33.01,
                    33.02
32-404(1)           33.01
32-404(2)           33.01
32-405              33.14
32-532              30.01,
                    33.03
32-533              33.03
32-554              33.03
32-556              33.01
32-557              33.04
32-559              33.07
32-560              30.04,
                    30.06
32-560 - 32-572     30.04
32-561              30.04
32-562              33.14
32-567 - 32-570     33.14
32-574              33.14
32-606              33.12
32-607              33.10,
                    33.12
32-608              33.08,
                    33.10
32-615              33.10
32-616              33.10
32-617              33.10
32-618              33.10
32-621              33.10
32-622              3.12
32-625              33.12
32-625(2)           33.10
32-627              33.10,
                    33.12
32-628              33.10,
                    93.06
32-628 - 32-631     34.62
32-629              33.10,
                    33.14
32-630              33.10,
                    33.14
32-710              33.10
32-801 - 32-822     33.01
32-802              33.06,
                    34.62
32-918              33.05
32-952 - 32-959     33.07
32-1122             33.15
32-1201 - 32-1208   33.01
32-1202             33.07
32-1301             33.14
32-1302             33.14
32-1303             33.14
32-1304             33.14
32-1305             33.14
32-1306             33.14
32-1307             33.14
32-1308             30.04,
                    33.14
32-1309             33.14
32-1524             33.05
32-1525             33.05
33-141 - 33-143     31.04
33-141              31.05
35-106              34.16
39-301              130.10
39-302              130.10
39-307              130.04
39-835 - 39-842.01  34.11
45-623              34.14
46-1212             93.13
46-1601 - 46-1670   151.17
48-1503             34.01
49-801(16)          10.05
49-1408             35.41
49-1425             35.41
49-1499.04          35.41
49-14,102           35.41
49-14,103.01        35.41
49-14,103.02        35.41
49-14,103.03        35.41
49-14,103.04        35.41
49-14,103.05        35.41
49-14,103.06        35.41
51-201              34.62
51-215              34.08
51-216              34.08
51-501              34.62
52-601.01 to 52-605 130.11
53-103 - 53-103.42  110.01,
                    110.07
53-103.23           110.06
53-116.01           110.25
53-118              110.52
53-123.04(3)        110.05
53-123.11(1)(C)     110.05
53-123.12           110.24
53-124              110.24,
                    110.27
53-124(5)(c),(h)    110.53
53-124.01           110.24
53-124.12           110.27
53-124.15           110.50
53-125              110.23
53-129              110.24
53-131              110.24
53-132              34.16,
                    110.24
53-133              110.24,
                    110.50
53-134              110.24
53-134(2),(3)       110.24
                    110.24,
53-134.03           110.52,
                    110.56
53-134.04           110.24,
                    110.31
53-135              110.24,
                    110.26
53-135.01           110.24,
                    110.26
53-148              110.28
53-160              34.16
53-167.02           110.58
53-167.03           110.58
53-168.06           110.20
53-175              110.21
53-177              110.50
53-177.01           110.50
53-178              110.51
53-179              110.53
53-180              110.02
53-180.01           110.06
53-180.02           110.07
53-183              110.54
53-184              110.56
53-186              110.03,
                    110.05
53-186(2)           110.03,
                    110.05
53-186.01           110.03
53-194.03           110.21
53-1,101            110.29
53-1,102            110.30
53-1,115            110.31
53-1,121            110.04
54-601              94.61
54-602              94.61
54-603              94.40
54-603(3)           94.40
54-605              94.48
54-618              94.52
54-619              94.52
54-620              94.52
54-621              94.69
54-622.01           94.52
54-623              94.52
54-624              94.52
60-169              130.11
60-376              130.11,
                    130.12
60-301              34.12
Ch. 60, Art. 6      70.01
60-606 - 60-676     70.01
60-678              70.03
60-680              Ch. 70
60-680              Ch. 72
60-681              71.01,
                    71.13
60-683              Ch. 70
60-696              71.10
60-697              71.10
60-3,104            34.12
60-6,113            72.31,
                    72.32
60-6,138            71.14
60-6,165            72.03
60-6,167            Ch. 72
60-6,168            72.01
60-6,185            71.06
60-6,186            71.06
60-6,190            71.06
60-6,196(1)(b)      71.09
60-6,196(1)(c)      71.09
60-6,201            71.09
60-6,211.01         71.09
60-6,211.02         71.09
60-6,211.08         110.03,
                    110.05
60-6,265            71.08
60-6,267            71.08
60-6,268            71.08
60-6,278 - 60-6,282 71.07
60-6,279            71.07
60-6,288 - 60-6,299 150.40
60-1901 - 60-1911   130.11
60-1901             130.11
60-1902             130.11
60-1903             130.11
60-1903.01          130.11
60-1903.02          130.11
60-1904             130.11
60-1905             130.11
60-1906             130.11
60-1907             130.11
60-1908             130.11
60-1909             130.11
60-1911             130.11
60-2410             130.11
66-489              34.16
66-489.02           34.16
66-4,140            34.16
66-4,145            34.16
66-4,146            34.16
70-624.04           35.41
70-1601             50.06
70-1601 - 70-1615   50.03
70-1602 et seq.     50.02
70-2103             130.37
71-423              110.04
71-1637             34.62
71-4401             94.47
71-4406             94.47
71-4407             94.47
71-4603             130.11
73-101 et seq.      34.01
76-704 - 76-724     93.51
77-1601             34.63
77-1606             34.62
77-1632             34.63
77-1633             34.63,
                    34.64
77-1702             34.15
77-2201             31.05       
77-2201 - 77-2215   31.05
77-2202             31.05
77-2209             31.05
77-2210             31.05
77-2212             31.05
77-2337             34.08
77-2341(1)          34.13
77-2362             34.09
77-2362 - 77-2364   34.09
77-2365.01          34.09,
                    34.10
77-2366             34.09,
                    34.10
77-2386 - 77-2397   34.09
77-2602             34.16
77-2704.24          34.16
77-3442             34.60,
                    34.62
77-3442 - 77-3444   34.62
77-3444             33.07,
                    34.62
77-4008             34.16
77-17,143           34.71
81-145 - 81-162     34.01
81-201              94.20
81-520.01           91.02
81-829.51           34.39
81-1176             35.40
81-2005             Ch. 70
81-3401 - 81-3455   31.08
81-3423             93.13
81-3445             93.13
81-3449 - 81-3453   93.13
81-3453             96.13
84-304              34.02
84-712 - 84-712.09  31.04,
                    31.05
84-712 et seq.      10.16
84-712(2)           31.04
84-1408             35.02
                    34.64,
84-1409             35.02,
                    35.03
84-1409(1)          35.01
84-1409(2)          30.15
84-1410             35.09,
                    35.15
                    35.02,
84-1411             35.03,
                    35.14
84-1411(3)          35.08
84-1411(4)          35.05
84-1412             35.09
84-1413             35.02,
                    35.06
84-1413(2)          35.07
84-1413(3)          35.07
86-704              34.16
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1975 CODE
1975 Code Section 2000 Code Section
1975 Code Section 2000 Code Section
1-101             30.03
1-102             30.01
1-103             30.02
1-104             30.04
1-201             31.01
1-202             31.01
1-203             31.03
1-204             31.04
1-205             31.05
1-206             31.05
1-208             31.06
1-210             31.08
1-301             35.30
1-302             35.31
1-401             11.01
1-501             35.01
1-502             35.01
1-503             35.02
1-504             35.04
1-505             35.05
1-506             35.06
1-507             35.07
1-508             35.08
1-509             35.09
1-510             35.11,
                  35.13
1-512             35.11
1-601             30.20
1-602             30.21
1-603             30.22
1-604             30.23
1-605             30.24
1-606             30.25
1-608             30.27
1-609             30.28
1-610             30.29
1-701             33.01
1-702             33.06
1-704             33.10
1-705             33.10
1-707             33.09
1-709             33.14
1-710             33.14
1-711             33.03
1-801             34.30
1-802             34.32
1-803             34.33
1-804             34.33
1-805             34.36
1-806             34.37
1-807             34.61
1-808             34.05
1-809             34.01
1-810             34.02
1-811             34.03
1-812             34.04
1-814             34.07
1-815             34.08
1-817             34.09
1-818             34.13
1-819             34.11
1-820             34.12
1-901             35.40
1-902             35.41
2-101             30.05
3-102             51.01
3-103             51.02
3-104             51.03
3-105             51.04
3-106             51.05
3-107             51.06
3-108             51.07
3-109             51.08
3-110             51.09
3-111             50.01
3-112             50.05
3-113             51.10
3-114             51.11
3-115             51.12
3-116             51.13
3-117             51.14
3-118             51.15
3-119             51.15
3-120             51.17
3-122             51.18
3-122             51.18
3-202             52.01
3-203             52.02
3-204             52.03
3-206             52.06
3-209             52.08
3-210             52.09
                  52.11,
3-211             52.21,
                  52.22,
                  52.23
3-212             52.24,
                  52.25
3-213             52.28
3-214             52.13
3-215             52.14
3-217             50.05
3-220             52.15
3-401             90.01
3-402             90.02
3-403             90.03
3-601             50.02
3-602             50.03
4-101             92.01
4-102             92.02
4-201 - 4-203     53.01
4-204             53.03
4-205             53.04
4-206             53.05
4-207             53.06
4-208             53.07
4-301             92.20
4-302             92.21
4-304             92.23
5-101             70.01
5-201             71.01
5-203             71.02
5-204             71.02
5-208             71.04
5-209             71.05
5-304             71.06
5-305             71.06
5-325             71.07
5-326             71.08
5-601             72.01
5-602             72.02
5-604             72.04
5-605             72.05
5-606             72.06
5-607             72.07
5-608             72.08
5-609             72.08
5-610             72.10
5-611             72.11
5-612             72.12
5-613             72.13
5-615             72.03
6-101             94.40
6-102             94.42
6-103             94.43
6-104             94.44
6-105             94.46
6-106             94.47
6-107             94.48
6-108             94.50
6-109             94.51
6-110             94.52
6-111             94.57
6-112             94.55
6-113             94.56
6-114             94.62
6-115             94.45
6-116             94.58
6-201             94.01
6-202             94.03
6-204             94.05
6-205             94.06
6-206             94.01
6-207             94.04
6-208             94.04
6-209             94.04
6-210             94.20
6-211             94.23
6-212             94.24
6-302             130.30
6-304             130.31
6-308             130.07
6-309             130.01
6-312             130.02
6-313             130.04
6-318             130.32
6-319             130.33
6-320             130.34
6-321             130.35
6-322             130.06
6-323             130.11
6-324             130.12
7-205             91.01
7-206             91.02
7-208             91.02
8-101             93.01
8-102             93.02
8-103             93.03
8-104             93.05
8-105             93.04
8-106             93.05
8-108             93.08
8-109             93.11
8-110             93.12
8-201             93.31
8-203             93.32
8-301             93.50
8-302             93.51
8-303             93.52
8-304             93.53
8-305             93.54
8-306             93.55
8-311             93.56
8-312             93.56
9-201             150.20
9-201.01          150.21
9-202             150.22
9-203             150.40
9-204             150.41
9-205             150.01
9-401             150.60
9-402             150.61
9-403             150.62
9-404             150.62
9-405             150.64
9-406             150.65
10-101            110.01
10-102            110.20
10-103            110.50
10-104            110.51
10-105            110.28
10-106            110.23
10-108            110.26
10-109            110.24
10-110            110.29
10-111            110.30
10-113            110.02
10-114            110.54
10-116            110.56
10-117            110.53
10-118            110.52
10-120            110.03
10-121            110.21
10-122            110.04
10-125            110.27
11-101            152.01
11-102            152.01
11-201            152.15
11-202            152.16
11-205            152.17
11-206            152.18
11-208            152.19
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
108      3-1-77      33.06
110      3-1-77      34.02
111      3-1-77      130.11
112      3-1-77      130.12
                     52.01 -
                     52.03,
                     52.06,
                     52.08,
113      5-3-77      52.09,
                     52.11,
                     52.13,
                     52.14,
                     52.15
121      12-6-77     30.03
122      12-6-77     34.33
123      12-6-77     34.02
126      1-3-78      72.07
134      12-4-79     33.14
135      12-4-79     34.01
137      12-4-79     50.02
141      12-4-79     150.21
143      12-4-79     110.26
150      4-7-81      51.02,
                     51.09
157      12-2-81     91.02
158      2-2-82      130.07
159      4-6-82      51.05
160      4-6-82      52.15
161      5-4-82      72.08
164      11-1-82     35.41
166      11-1-82     50.02
170      11-1-82     93.05
171      11-1-82     3.12
172      7-5-83      130.06
175      7-5-83      51.02
176      7-5-83      50.01
178      3-6-84      52.13
180      3-6-84      130.35
                     35.02,
182      4-3-84      35.04,
                     35.05
183      4-3-84      35.11,
                     35.13
184      4-3-84      34.01
185      4-3-84      35.41
186      4-3-84      50.03
189      4-3-84      93.08,
                     93.11
191      4-3-84      110.24,
                     110.26
192      4-3-84      110.53
193      4-3-84      110.04
194      4-3-84      152.18
199      10-2-84     30.04
200      10-2-84     31.01
                     33.03,
201      10-2-84     33.10,
                     33.14
202      10-2-84     34.32
203      10-2-84     34.02
204      10-2-84     35.41
206      10-2-84     52.09
207      10-2-84     50.02
209      10-2-84     72.03
213      11-5-84     51.09
216      3-5-85      51.09
221      9-3-85      51.05,
                     51.07
222      9-3-85      52.09
223      12-3-85     50.01,
                     51.09
224      12-3-85     52.15
228      7-1-86      110.27
232      9-2-86      35.41
234      9-2-86      93.56
236      10-7-86     51.07
237      11-5-86     150.20
241      5-5-87      51.18
242      5-5-87      110.53
247      3-1-88      35.02
251      3-1-88      93.12
258      3-7-89      34.12
259      3-7-89      53.04 -
                     53.07
260      3-7-89      71.07
261      3-7-89      72.03
269      7-5-89      52.15
272      12-13-89    110.53
274      5-1-90      110.53
276      6-21-90     52.16
279      8-7-90      150.20
282      12-4-90     30.04
283      12-4-90     31.01
284      12-4-90     71.08
287      12-4-90     150.65
291      8-6-91      130.06
295      4-7-92      110.56
191      4-3-94      110.23
                     51.30 -
305      5-3-94      51.42,
                     51.60 -
                     51.63
331      12- -96     51.60 -
                     51.63
335      3-3-98      93.03
336      3-3-98      93.04
337      5-5-98      51.02
344      6-1-99      152.19
340      6-9-99      33.14
341      6-9-99      50.06
343      6-9-99      72.31
349      5-2-00      Adopting Ordinance
350      6-6-00      10.99
351      6-6-00      30.02
352      6-6-00      35.03;
                     35.14
353      6-6-00      33.02
355      6-6-00      34.62
356      6-6-00      34.63
357      6-6-00      34.39
358      6-6-00      93.13
359      6-6-00      110.02
360      6-6-00      110.05
                     Repealing
361      6-6-00      110.22;
                     110.24
362      6-6-00      110.27
363      6-6-00      130.11
364      6-6-00      T.S.O. II
366      9-5-00      T.S.O. II
368      12-5-00     T.S.O. III
369      12-5-00     30.05
371      11-12-02    35.14
                     32.30,
371A     9-3-02      51.01,
                     51.09
372      11-12-02    71.08
373      11-12-02    34.32
                     32.31,
377      11-12-02    52.08,
                     52.15
                     50.01,
378      11-12-02    51.02,
                     51.06
379      12-3-02     31.05
380      12-3-02     35.41
381      12-3-02     35.09
383      12-3-02     34.09
384      12-3-02     34.10
385      12-3-02     34.39
386      12-3-02     71.10
387      12-3-02     72.30
388      12-3-02     72.31
389      12-3-02     72.32
390      12-3-02     72.33
391      12-3-02     72.34
392      12-3-02     72.35
393      12-3-02     72.36
394      12-3-02     72.37
395      12-3-02     72.38
396      12-3-02     93.51
397      12-3-02     93.56
398      12-3-02     110.20
399      12-3-02     110.24
400      12-3-02     110.27
401      12-3-02     152.04
402      12-3-02     152.15
403      12-3-02     152.16
404      12-3-02     152.19
405      12-3-02     52.01
406      12-3-02     51.01
407      4-1-03      50.05
                     92.01,
                     92.02,
408      4-1-03      92.20 -
                     92.40,
                     92.99
409      4-1-03      30.06
410      4-1-03      33.10
411      4-1-03      33.13
412      4-1-03      33.14
413      4-1-03      34.32
414      4-1-03      34.33
415      4-1-03      34.39
416      4-1-03      34.62
417      4-1-03      34.09
418      4-1-03      34.02
419      4-1-03      50.03
420      4-1-03      50.04
421      8-5-03      T.S.O. II
422      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
423      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
424      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
425      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
426      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
427      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
428      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
429      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
430      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
431      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
432      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
433      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
434      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
435      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
436      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
437      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
438      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
439      9-16-03     T.S.O. II
441      10-7-03     35.40
444      11-4-03     35.12
445      11-4-03     52.01 -
                     52.31
446      11-25-03    T.S.O. II
447      11-25-03    T.S.O. II
448      1-13-04     33.07
449      1-13-04     33.14
450      1-13-04     34.09
451      1-13-04     53.09
452      1-13-04     93.06,
                     93.14
453      1-13-04     150.22
454      1-13-04     31.01
455      1-13-04     31.07,
                     31.08
456      5-12-04     31.09
457      5-12-04     31.10
                     94.01 -
                     94.08,
                     94.20 -
458      5-12-04     94.24,
                     94.40,
                     94.43 -
                     94.61,
                     94.99
459      5-12-04     T.S.O. I
460      6-8-04      153.01
461      6-8-04      152.30
462      6-8-04      71.11
463      12-14-04    T.S.O. I
464      12-14-04    35.03
465      12-14-04    35.04,
                     35.15
466      12-14-04    33.01,
                     33.02; Repealing 33.12
467      12-14-04    35.14
468      12-14-04    71.08
469      12-14-04    93.13
470      12-14-04    93.31
471      12-14-04    110.24
472      12-14-04    110.25
473      12-14-04    110.26
474      12-14-04    110.27
475      12-14-04    110.31
476      2-8-05      130.06
477      2-8-05      110.53
479      2-14-06     51.02
482      10-10-06    52.08
483      12-12-06    52.15
484      12-12-06    52.10
485      12-12-06    T.S.O. III
487      1-9-07      T.S.O. III
488      2-13-07     T.S.O. III
489      5-8-07      50.01
492      3-11-08     51.02
                     112.01 -
493      8-12-08     112.04,
                     112.99
496      12-9-08     32.01
497      7-14-09     34.01
498      7-14-09     130.12
499      7-14-09     33.14
500      7-14-09     35.09
502      12-15-09    Adopting Ordinance
506      3-8-11      94.04
                     94.20,
507      3-8-11      94.23,
                     94.24
508      3-8-11      110.01
509      3-8-11      110.23
510      3-8-11      110.24
511      3-8-11      110.50
512      3-8-11      3-8-11
513      3-8-11      110.27
514      4-12-11     33.12
515      4-12-11     Repealing
                     110.55
516      4-12-11     110.06
517      4-12-11     110.07
518      5-10-11     94.40; Repealing 94.41,
                     94.42
520      1-10-12     110.03
521      1-10-12     110.54
522      1-10-12     110.02
523      1-10-12     110.50
524      1-10-12     110.24
525      1-10-12     31.01
526      1-10-12     33.12
527      1-10-12     33.10
528      1-10-12     33.14
530      11-13-12    34.70 -
                     34.74
531      2-12-13     34.12
                     94.20,
532      2-12-13     94.23,
                     94.24
533      2-12-13     34.16
534      2-12-13     110.53
535      2-12-13     130.13
536      6-11-13     94.07
538      3-11-14     31.05
539      3-11-14     31.04
540      3-11-14     130.06
541      3-11-14     34.33
542      3-11-14     34.34
543      3-11-14     34.35
544      3-11-14     34.31
545      3-11-14     34.32
547      9-9-14      91.04
549      4-14-15     130.11
550      4-14-15     33.10
551      4-14-15     33.08
552      4-14-15     110.53
553      4-14-15     112.15 -
                     112.17
554      4-14-15     34.16
555      4-14-15     110.54
556      4-14-15     112.05 -
                     112.11
558      2-9-16      92.40
559      2-9-16      93.04
560      2-9-16      93.15
561      2-9-16      30.02
562      2-9-16      30.04
564      4-12-16     92.22
565      4-12-16     34.39
566      4-12-16     110.58
567      4-12-16     110.50
568      4-12-16     93.13
                     94.20,
569      4-12-16     94.23,
                     94.24
570      5-11-16     94.40
571      8-9-16      71.12
572      3-14-17     110.20
574      3-14-17     110.51
575      3-14-17     110.21
576      3-14-17     110.23
577      3-14-17     110.24
                     94.20,
578      3-14-17     94.23,
                     94.24
579      3-14-17     33.10
580      3-14-17     93.14
581      3-14-17     92.40
582      3-14-17     71.13
583      3-14-17     130.06
584      6-13-17     71.06
588      3-13-18     130.36
589      6-12-18     93.57
590      6-12-18     34.01
591      6-12-18     30.26
592      6-12-18     34.33
593      6-12-18     34.34
594      6-12-18     93.06
595      6-12-18     32.01
596      6-12-18     72.01
597      6-12-18     30.26
598      6-12-18     130.06
602      5-14-19     150.20
603      6-11-19     50.01
604      7-9-19      51.07
605      9-10-19     150.02
606      10-18-19    150.22
607      1-14-20     33.10
608      1-14-20     33.14
610      1-14-20     34.63
611      1-14-20     94.47
612      1-14-20     94.47
613      1-14-20     94.47
614      1-14-20     110.04
615      1-14-20     112.05
616      1-14-20     112.07
617      1-14-20     112.08
618      1-14-20     112.15
619      1-14-20     112.16
620      1-14-20     112.17
621      1-14-20     130.14
622      1-14-20     130.15
623      1-14-20     150.20
625      2-9-21      31.04
626      2-9-21      31.05
627      2-9-21      32.01
628      2-9-21      33.07
629      2-9-21      33.14
630      2-9-21      34.12
631      2-9-21      34.14
632      2-9-21      34.33
633      2-9-21      35.02
634      2-9-21      110.23
635      2-9-21      110.24
636      2-9-21      110.25
637      2-9-21      112.05
638      2-9-21      112.08
639      2-9-21      112.15
640      2-9-21      112.16
641      2-9-21      112.17
642      2-9-21      33.05
643      7-13-21     110.53
644      8-10-21     90.02
647      12-14-21    94.09
648      12-14-21    150.90 -
                     150.98
649      2-8-22      30.25
650      2-8-22      30.26
651      2-8-22      31.02
652      2-8-22      31.04
653      2-8-22      33.08
654      2-8-22      33.12
655      2-8-22      34.34
656      2-8-22      34.38
657      2-8-22      34.62
658      2-8-22      34.63
659      2-8-22      35.09
660      2-8-22      35.41
661      2-8-22      53.06
662      2-8-22      110.24
663      2-8-22      130.11
664      2-8-22      130.14
665      2-8-22   150.22
666      2-8-22   71.14
668      5-11-22     94.58,
                     94.99
671      10-11-22    71.06
672      11-9-22     130.16,
                     130.99
                     33.07,
                     33.14,
                     34.32 -
                     34.34,
675      2-14-23     34.62,
                     34.64,
                     35.06,
                     93.06,
                     94.20,
                     130.37
676      4-11-23     130.01
677      7-11-23     51.02
678      9-12-23     111.01
                     30.25,
684      1-9-24      34.63,
                     34.64,
                     70.03
686      7-23-24     50.01
                     151.01 -
                     151.04,
                     151.10 -
                     151.17,
687      7-23-24     151.30,
                     151.40 -
                     151.47,
                     151.60 -
                     151.63,
                     151.99
                    
 
