MUNICIPAL CODE OF
THE CITY OF
NEWMAN GROVE, NEBRASKA
ORDINANCE NO. 383
 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
OF THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
July 11, 1990
 
Contains 2024 S-14 Supplement,
Current through Ord. No. 570, passed 10-19-2023
State Legislation current through 2009
 
Codified by The League of
Nebraska Municipalities Lincoln, Nebraska
CITY OFFICERS
of
NEWMAN GROVE, NEBRASKA
2024
*******
 
Shari Augé   Clerk/Treasurer
Albert Slater Utilities Superintendent
Kyle Petersen Attorney
Ryan Chilson  Fire Chief
*******
CITY COUNCIL
David Johnson, Mayor
Tom Bagley, President
Connie Johnson
Alvin Meyer
Jim O’Brien
*******
PREFACE
This Municipal Code of Newman Grove, Nebraska, 1990, contains all the
ordinances of the Municipality of a general nature. Certain ordinances which
are continued in force after this codification for the purpose of rights
acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities incurred, and actions
therefor have been omitted from this publication.
A Table of Contents appears after this page, and a complete index to the
subject matter included in the several chapters and sections herein will be
found at the end of this volume. Convenient cross-references to the Statutes of
Nebraska indicate the source of legislative power and supplement the text.
The text of the Newman Grove Municipal Code, 1990, is arranged in the same
manner as the Revised Statutes of Nebraska. The number preceding the hyphen is
the chapter number; immediately following the hyphen is the article number; and
following that is the section number. Each section number is complete within
itself indicating the number of the chapter, article, and section.
ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL AND PERMANENT NATURE
of the CITY of NEWMAN GROVE, NEBRASKA
ORDINANCE NO. 383
An ordinance of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, revising the general
ordinances of the Municipality, repealing prior ordinances in conflict
herewith.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF NEWMAN GROVE, NEBRASKA.
Section 1. Codification. The general ordinances of the Municipality of Newman
Grove, Nebraska, are hereby codified into twelve chapters and the articles and
sections hereunder, which are adopted and declared to be ordinances of this
Municipality.
Section 2. Repeal of Prior Ordinances in Conflict. All ordinances and parts of
ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed and approved prior to the
passage and approval of this codification ordinance and in conflict with this
ordinance or with any of the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed;
Provided, that in construing the provisions of this ordinance the following
ordinances shall not be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature, to-wit:
1.   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys.
2.   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
3.   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
4.   Ordinances granting a franchise, or special license to persons, firms, or
corporations.
5.   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
6.   Ordinances establishing grades.
7.   Real Estate Transactions.
8.   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
Section 3. Exceptions. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2,
Ordinance No. 383 shall not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties,
forfeitures, or liabilities incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of
the provisions of such ordinances and parts thereof prior to repeal. Such
ordinances above repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the
passage, approval and publication of this general codification ordinance for
the purpose of all rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities, and
actions therefor.
Section 4. Defining Chapters, Articles, and Sections. The chapters, articles,
and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are declared to be the
chapters, articles, and sections of this general codification ordinance. All
ordinances hereafter passed by the local Governing Body of the Municipality
shall be numbered consecutively, beginning with No. 384.
Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause, phrase, term, or provision of this ordinance should be declared invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this code, which will remain in full
force and effect, and the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to
be severable.
Section 6. Blanket Penalty. Any person, his agents, or servants who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Municipal Code unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred
($100.00) dollars. Whoever aids, abets, procures, encourages, requests,
advises, or incites another to commit any act which is an offense under this
Code or under any other ordinance of the Municipality may be prosecuted and
punished as though he were the principal offender.
Section 7. General Definitions:
1.   Person. Whenever used in this code, the word person shall include natural
persons, artificial persons, such as corporations, co-partnerships,
associations, and all aggregate organizations of whatever character.
2.   Gender and Number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender may
apply to, and include the feminine or neuter gender and all words importing the
plural may be applied to, and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All words
importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural number.
3.   Code, Ordinance, and Chapter. Municipal Code shall mean the General
Codification Ordinance No. 383. Ordinance and chapter are used synonymously
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
4.   Wholesale Dealer. The words wholesale dealer or sellers of said product at
wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell the
said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to consumers.
5.   Municipal and Municipality. The words Municipal and Municipality whenever
used in this code shall mean the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, a Municipal
Corporation.
6.   Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
7.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Administrative Official of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
8.   Municipal Police. Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
Section 8. Time. Whenever words fixing or importing time or the hour of the day
are used in this Code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard Time or
Central Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
Section 9. Construction of Chapters, Articles, and Sections. For purposes of
construction each chapter contained and arranged in this Code shall be
considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for convenience under
the General Codification Ordinance No. 383, each section appearing in the
several chapters of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct unit
of legislation germane to the chapter or article under which it is grouped and
each article appearing in the said chapters shall be considered as a group of
legislative units germane to the chapter wherein it is placed. Any chapter,
article, or section duly enacted by the Governing Body of the Municipality and
included in this Code, and any other independent ordinance, chapter, article,
section, or subsection of an ordinance duly enacted shall be altered, amended,
or revised only by the complete nullification and repeal of such ordinance,
chapter, article, section, or subsection and by the substitution of a new
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection containing the entire
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection as amended, altered, or
revised.
Section 10. Publication and Distribution. This code was printed in book form
under the direction of the Governing Body, and shall be distributed as it may
see fit. (Ref. 17-613, 17-614 RS Neb.)
Section 11. When Operative. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall
take effect from and after its passage, approval and publication according to
law.
Passed and approved July 11, 1990.
ROBERT FLOOD
Mayor
(SEAL)
SHARI K. NYGREN
Municipal Clerk
Chapter 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Article 1. Elected Officials
§1-101   CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
The Mayor of the Municipality shall have the general, and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected, or appointed, of the
Municipality. He shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and may
vote when his vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally divided on any
pending matter, legislation, or transaction and the Mayor shall, for the
purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His signature
must appear on the Municipal Clerk's minutes of all meetings, and he must sign
all resolutions which have been passed, and warrants for the payment of money
when ordered by the City Council; Provided, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor
may be passed over his veto by a two-thirds (2/3) vote by the members of the
City Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, and
returns it to the Council with his objections in writing at the next regular
Council meeting, the same shall become a law without his signature. He shall
from time to time communicate to the Council such information and
recommendations as, in his opinion, may improve the Municipality. He may
require any Municipal official to exhibit his accounts and make reports to the
Council on any subject pertaining to his office. He shall have the power to
remit fines or pardon any offense arising under the ordinances of the
Municipality. He may remove an appointed police officer of the Municipality.
His territorial authority shall extend over all places within five (5) miles of
the corporate limits of the Municipality for the enforcement of any health
ordinance, and one half mile in all matters vested in him except taxation. He
shall also have such duties as the City Council may by resolution confer upon
him, and in other matters which the laws of the State of Nebraska repose in
him. He shall be elected at the Municipal Election, and shall serve a four (4)
year term of office. Any candidate for Mayor must have resided within the
Municipality for forty (40) days prior to filing for the said office and must
in addition be a qualified taxpayer. (Ref. 17-110 thru 17-117 RS Neb.)
§1-102   CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
The City Council shall elect one (1) of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one (1) of its own
body to occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the Municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor. (Ref. 17-148 RS Neb.)
§1-103   CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the Municipal
Government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions. (Ref. 17-
103, 17-104 RS Neb.)
§1-104   CITY COUNCIL.; ORGANIZATION.
City Councilmembers of this Municipality shall take office, and commence their
duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election. The
newly elected Councilmembers who have qualified as prescribed by law, together
with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular
meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided. All appointive offices
in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by appointment.
After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal Clerk shall
report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmembers-elect who have
qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be spread upon
the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. (Ref. 17-104 RS Neb.)
§1-105   ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (1)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in section 32-560 RS Neb. except as
provided in section 32-561 RS Neb. (Ref. 32-560 RS Neb.)
   (2)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) of this section. (Ref. 32-568 RS Neb.)
   (3)   (a)   1.   Except as otherwise provided in division (3)(b) or (3) or
section
1-106, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three (3) public places in the
City the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         2.   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four (4) weeks
after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The
Council shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the
nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive
a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall,
at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (b)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a City
elected office as provided in division (1)(a) above, call a special City
election to fill such vacancy.
      (c)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of
the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special City election
to fill such vacancies. (Ref. 32-569 RS Neb.)
§1-106   ELECTED OFFICIALS; MAYOR; VACANCY.
Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his disability
or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the office of Mayor
until such vacancy is filled or such disability is removed, or in case of
temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from assuming
office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the term, but
such office shall automatically become vacant and the President of the Council
shall exercise the office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled.
If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office of Mayor
for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the
Council which shall be filled as provided in section
1-105. (Ref. 17-107, 17-115 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Appointed Officials
§1-201   APPOINTED OFFICIALS: GENERAL AUTHORITY.
The Mayor, by, and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by, and with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number of regular policemen,
and other officials as may be necessary, and may establish a police reserve
force as provided by law. All police officers may be removed, demoted or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in section
3-703 of this Code. (Ref. 811438 thru 811446 RS Neb.)
§1-202   APPOINTED OFFICIALS: MERGER OF OFFICES.
The Governing Body of the Municipality may, in its discretion, by ordinance
combine, and merge any elective, or appointive office, or employment, except
the Mayor or a City Councilmember with any other elective, or appointive office
so that one or more of such offices may be held by the officer or employee at
the same time. Any offices so merged and combined shall always be construed to
be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary of the officer holding the
merged offices shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary of the offices so combined. For purposes of this Section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers. (Ref. 17-
108.02 RS Neb.)
§1-203   APPOINTED OFFICIALS: CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the Governing
Body by Section
1-202.
The office so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate, and
the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a consolidation
of official duties only.
The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in excess of
the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so combined.
§1-204   APPOINTED OFFICIALS: MUNICIPAL CLERK
The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the Governing Body, and keep a
correct Journal of the proceedings of that body. He shall keep a record of all
outstanding bonds against the Municipality and when any bonds are sold,
purchased, paid, or cancelled, said record shall show the fact. He shall make,
at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of the Municipality
transacted through his office for the year. That record shall describe
particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year, and the terms of the
sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He shall file all official
bonds after the same shall have been properly executed, and approved. He shall
make the proper certificate of passage which shall be attached to original
copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted by the Governing Body.
The Municipal Clerk shall issue, and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the Municipal ordinances. He
shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money except where some other
Municipal officer is speciflically charged with that duty. He shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the Municipality, and the purpose for which
they have been issued.
The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the Municipality kept, and preserved in his office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the Municipality as may be entitled to the use of
the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He shall keep all the
records of his office. Including a record of all licenses Issued by him in a
blank book with a proper index. He shall include as part of his records all
petitions under which the Governing Body shall order public work to be done at
the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions, and ordinances relating to the same. He shall endorse the date,
and hour of filing upon every paper, or document so filed in his office. All
such filings made by him shall be properly docketed. Included in his records
shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged In triplicate In a manner convenient
for reference. He shall keep, and preserve the proceedings of the Governing
Body in two (2) separate, and distinct record books. The Minute Records shall
contain a record of all the miscellaneous, and informal doings of the Governing
Body. The Minute Record shall not include the passage, and approval of
ordinances except such resolutions incorporating by reference the Ordinance
Record into the Minute Record. The Ordinance Record shall contain the formal
proceedings of the Governing Body in the matter of passing, approving,
publishing, posting, and certifying of ordinances. After the formalities for
the legal enactment of an ordinance have been completed, the Municipal Clerk
shall record, and spread at large in the Ordinance Record his ordinance minutes
on printed forms. In all cases hereafter where single ordinances are introduced
for the consideration of the Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall cause to
be introduced an appropriate resolution incorporating by reference the
Ordinance Record into the Minute Record. He shall keep an accurate, and
complete account of the appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and
attest all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund
from which the same is payable. At the end of each month, he shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official, or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his charge to the Mayor for his signature. He shall also deliver to
officers, employees, and committees all resolutions, and communications which
are directed at said officers, employees, or committees. With the seal of the
Municipality, he shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to all ordinances,
deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the
Governing Body. Within thirty (30) days after any meeting of the Governing
Body, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare, and publish the official proceedings
of the Governing Body in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality. Said publication shall set forth a statement of the proceedings
thereof and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of
the claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of
all payroll claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15
of each year, the names of all employees and their current annual, monthly, or
hourly salaries shall be published and any changes in salaries or the hiring of
new employees during the calendar quarter preceding the months of October,
January, and April shall be published during the months of November, February,
and May; Provided, the charge for such publication shall not exceed the rates
provided by the statutes of the State of Nebraska. Said publication shall be
charged against the General Fund. He shall then keep in a book with a proper
index, copies of all notices required to be published, or posted by the
Municipal Clerk by order of the Governing Body, or under the ordinances of the
Municipality. To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer's affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published, or the Municipal Clerk's certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only. The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to
creation of paving districts, and other street improvements. He shall receive
the claims of any person against the Municipality, and in the event that the
said claim is disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify
such claimant, his agent, or attorney by letter within five (5) days after such
disallowance.The Municipal Clerk shall prepare transcripts on appeals from any
disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his office as set by resolution of the Governing Body. He shall
destroy Municipal records under the direction, of the State Records Board
pursuant to Sections 84-1201 thru 84-1220; Provided, the Governing Body shall
not have the authority to destroy the Minutes of the Municipal Clerk, the
permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other records classified as
permanent by the State Records Board. (Ref. 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-1201
thru 84-1220, 84-712 RS Neb.)
§1-205   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL TREASURER
   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging to
the City. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give every person
paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of such
receipts with his or her monthly reports. The City Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the City Treasurer fails to render his
or her account within twenty (20) days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Governing Body, the Mayor may use this failure as
a cause to remove the Treasurer from office. (Ref. 17-606 RS Neb.)
   (2)   (a)   All warrants upon the City Treasurer shall be paid in the order
of their presentation therefor. (Ref. 77-2201 RS Neb.)
      (b)   The City Treasurer shall keep a warrant register in the form
required by section 77-2202 RS Neb..
      (c)   The City Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office. (Ref. 77-2209 RS Neb.)
      (d)   The City Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall
close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the
excess. (Ref. 77-2210 RS Neb.)
   (3)   (a)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within
sixty (60) days following the close of the municipal fiscal year a statement of
the receipts and expenditures by funds of the City for the preceding fiscal
year. (Ref. 19-1101 RS Neb.)
      (b)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the City. If no legal newspaper is published in the City, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the City is located. (Ref. 19-1103 RS
Neb.)
   (4)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the City separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall invest and collect all
money owned by or owed to the City as directed by the City Council. He or she
shall maintain depository evidence that all municipal money is, in the name of
the City, in a solvent and going financial institution of a type authorized by
state law for deposit of municipal funds. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the City, whenever paid
by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City
Treasurer," with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§1-206   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
(Repealed 2005)
§1-207   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S ANNUAL REPORT.
(Repealed 2005)
§1-208   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
The Municipal Attorney is the Municipality's legal advisor, and as such he
shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the Municipality.
When requested by the Governing Body, he shall attend meetings of the Governing
Body, and shall advise any Municipal Official in all matters of law in which
the interests of the Municipality may be involved. He shall draft such
ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may be required in the
administration of the affairs of the Municipality. He shall examine all bonds,
contracts, and documents on which the Governing Body will be required to act,
and attach a brief statement in writing to all such instruments, and documents
as to whether, or not, the document is in legal, and proper form. He shall
prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute violations of the Municipal
ordinances when directed to do so by the Governing Body. Without direction, he
shall appear, and prosecute all cases for violation of the Municipal ordinances
that have been appealed to, and are pending in any higher court. He shall also
examine, when requested to do so by the Governing Body, the ordinance records,
and advise, and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the
end that each procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to
insure that they will be valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their
passage, and approval are concerned. The Governing Body shall have the right to
compensate the Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the
Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any
additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the
Municipality. (Ref. 17-610 RS Neb.)
§1-209   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
Municipality, and perform the duties devolving upon him as the medical advisor
of the said board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted against
the Municipality, the Municipal Physician shall immediately investigate the
said injuries, the extent thereof, and the circumstances. He shall then report
the results of his investigation with the name of the party injured, and all
other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter. He shall make all
physical examinations, and necessary laboratory tests incident thereto, and
issue such health certificates as are required by ordinance. For the purpose of
making examinations of the sanitary conditions of the property, and the state
of health of the inhabitants therein, he shall have the right at all reasonable
hours to go upon, and enter all premises, buildings, or other structures in the
Municipality. He shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by
the laws of the State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the Municipality. When
ordered to do so by the Governing Body he shall disinfect, or fumigate the
premises, or persons in or about the premises, when the premises are
quarantined, and shall examine and treat indigent sick persons, and perform
other professional services at the direction of the Governing Body. The
Municipal Physician shall receive as compensation for his services such sum as
the Governing Body may from time to time set. He shall receive no compensation
for his services as a member of the Municipal Board of Health. (Ref. 17-121 RS
Neb.)
§1-210   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the Municipality and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He shall act as
Secretary and Quarantine Officer of the Board of Health, and Building except in
the event the Municipality appoints another person. He shall investigate all
complaints of violations of Municipal ordinances, and shall report same to the
City prosecutor, and shall make all necessary reports required by the Municipal
ordinances, or the laws of the State of Nebraska. (Ref. 17-107, 17-121 RS Neb.)
§1-211   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICEMAN.
The Municipal Police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
Municipality, by day or by night, and keep the said offenders in a suitable
jail, to prevent their escape until trial can be held. They shall have full
power, and authority to call on any person whenever necessary to assist them in
performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to render such
assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine.
Every Municipal Policeman shall be expected to be conversant, and knowledgeable
with the Municipal and State laws and no law enforcement official shall have
any interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Any Municipal
Policeman who shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make an arrest, or
who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint after an arrest is made
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be fined. It
shall be unlawful for the Governing Body to retain any Municipal Policeman in
that position after he shall have been duly convicted of the willful violation
of any law of the United States of America, the State of Nebraska, or any
ordinance of the Municipality, except minor traffic violations. It shall be the
duty of every Municipal Policeman making a lawful arrest to search all persons
in the presence of some other person, whenever possible, and shall carefully
keep, and produce to the proper judicial offkial upon the trial everything
found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal effects so taken from
prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their release. Suitable
uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the Municipal Police by the
Municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall be required
to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member shall leave the
force, he shall immediately deliver his badge, uniforms and equipment to the
Police Chief. The Governing Body may from time to time provide the Municipal
Police with such uniforms, equipment, and transportation as may be essential in
the performance of their official duties. (Ref. 17-118, 17-124 RS Neb.)
§1-212   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of
fires: the storage and use of explosives and flammable substances: the
installation of fire alarm systems: the maintenance of fire extinguishing
equipment: the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of all premises
requiring adequate fire escapes. He shall within two (2) days investigate the
cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his jurisdiction. He
shall, on or before the first (1st) day in April and October of each year,
cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk, and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
He shall have the power during the time of a fire, and for a period of thirty-
six (36) hours thereafter to arrest any suspected arsonist, or any person for
hindering the department's efforts, conducting himself in a noisy and
disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief, or his assistant in charge of
operations at a fire may command the services of any person present at any fire
in extinguishing the same or in the removal, and protection of property.
Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine. The
Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours into
buildings, and upon all premises within his jurisdiction for the purpose of
examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers. (Ref. 17-147, 17-505,
35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-512 RS Neb.)
§1-213   APPOINTED OFFICIALS: MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
The Municipal Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates, and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He shall accurately make all plats,
sections, and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the Governing
Body. Upon request, he shall make estimates of the cost of labor and material
which may be done or furnished by contract with the Municipality, and make all
surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary to be made for the establishment
of grades, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks,
power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters and the
improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings. and shall perform
such other duties as the Governing Body may require. (Ref. 17-150, 17-405, 17-
568.01, 17-919, 81-839 RS Neb.)
§1-214   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
The Governing Body may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his surveys and all
other work done for the Municipality. He shall, when directed by the Governing
Body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may be
necessary in the judgment of the Governing Body. He shall, upon request of the
Governing Body, make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be
done or furnished by contract with the Municipality, and make all surveys,
estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges,
building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant,
public heating system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of streets and
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Governing Body may require. All records of the Special Engineer shall be public
records which shall belong to the Municipality, and shall be turned over to his
successor. (Ref. 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919 RS Neb.)
§1-215   APPOINTED QFFICIALS; PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
The Public Works Commissioner shall have general supervision over the Municipal
Water System, and shall be primarily responsible for its economic operation and
prudent management. Included in the said Water System shall be the water plant,
the pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in connection with producing
and distributing water to inhabitants of the Municipality. He shall also have
the duty of coordinating garbage removal in a liaison capacity and shall report
periodically to the Governing Body the condition and requirements of the
Municipal Light System. All actions, decisions, and procedures of the Public
Works Commissioner shall be subject to the general directives and control of
the Governing Body. The Commissioner shall have the general control and
supervisory authority over all employees of the Water System which the
Governing Body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said
system. He shall make a detailed report to the Governing Body at least once
every six (6) months, of the condition of the said water system, of all mains,
pipes. hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery and such improvements, repairs, and
extensions thereof as he may think proper. No money shall be expended for
improvements, repairs, or extensions of the said waterworks system except upon
the recommendation of the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall provide a bond
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his duties which shall amount to not
less than five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars. The Commissioner shall perform
such additional duties as may be prescribed by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-541
17-543 RS Neb.)
§1-216   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
The Commissioner shall have the immediate control, and supervision over all the
employees, and property that make up the Municipal Sewer System, subject to the
general control, and directives of the Governing Body. He shall at least every
six (6) months, make a detailed report to the Governing Body on the condition
of the Sewer System, and shall direct their attention to such improvements,
repairs. extensions, additions, and additional employees as he may believe are
needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall have such other
duties as the Governing Body may delegate to him. He shall issue permits for
all connections to the Municipal Sewer System, and inspect and supervise all
repairs made to the said system.
§1-217   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; STREET COMMISSIONER.
The Street Commissioner who also serves as a member of the Governing Body,
shall, subject to the orders, and directives of the Governing Body, have
general charge, direction, and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, and bridges of the Municipality, and shall perform such other duties
as the Governing Body may require. It shall be his responsibility to see that
gutters and drains therein function property, and that the same are kept in
good repair. He shall, at the request of the Governing Body make a detailed
report to the Governing Body on the condition of the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, alleys, and bridges of the Municipality, and shall direct their
attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional
employees as he may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system
in the Municipality along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall issue
such permits, and assume such other duties as the Governing Body may direct. It
shall be a special duty of the Street Commissioner to supervise and direct snow
and tree removal work in the Municipality. (Ref. 17-119 RS Neb.)
§1-218   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL PARK COMMISSIONER.
The Commissioner, who is also a member of the Governing Body, shall, subject to
the orders and directives of the Governing Body, have general charge,
direction, and control of the recreational property of the Municipality, and
shall perform such other duties as the Governing Body may require. He shall be
in charge of the maintenance and additions to the recreational facilities of
the Municipality. He shall, at the request of the Governing Body make a
detailed report to the Governing Body on the condition of the Municipal
recreation facilities and shall direct their attention to such improvements,
repairs, additions, and additional employees as he may believe are needed along
with an estimate of the cost thereof.
§1-219   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL SEWER LAGOON COMMISSIONER.
The Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and directives of the Governing
Body, have general charge, direction, and control of the Municipal Sewer
Lagoon. It shall be his duty to keep the lagoon and the equipment located there
properly maintained and shall, when requested by the Governing Body, report on
the condition of the lagoon and direct their attention to such improvements,
repairs, and additions as he may believe are needed along with an estimate of
the cost thereof. He shall have such additional duties as may be assigned by
the Governing Body. The Commissioner shall be a member of the Governing Body.
§1-220   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
The Utilities Superintendent shall, subject to the orders and directives of the
Municipal officials in charge of the Departments of the Municipality, be
immediately responsible for the maintenance and proper functioning of all
utilities and the repair of the public ways and property. He shall, at the
request of any of the said Municipal officials, prepare reports on the
condition and working order of the said Municipal property and shall supervise
any repairs and additions thereto.
§1-221   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall act as the Building Inspector. He
shall have the power to hire the necessary expert assistance to aid in his
duties. The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make
inspections in any area of the Municipality to determine whether all buildings
and structures are in compliance with the Municipal ordinances. He shall
investigate all complaints alleging, and charging that a violation of the
Municipal ordinances exists, and that a building, or structure is unfit, or
unsafe for human habitation. The Building Inspector is authorized upon properly
identifying himself to enter, inspect, survey, and investigate between the
hours of eight (8:00) o'clock AM., and five (5:00) o'clock P.M., or at any time
if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner, or occupant thereof. He
shall keep records of all complaints received, inspection reports, orders, and
complaints issued. The records shall be available for public inspection, and he
shall prepare an annual report including statistics based on the records kept.
The Building Inspector shall have no financial interest in the furnishing of
labor, materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or
maintenance of a building, except where he is the owner of a building, and he
shall not act as an agent for any said dealer, or as an agent for the sale,
lease, or rental of any real estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the
Governing Body as often as they may deem necessary, and shall have such other
duties, and issue such permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may
be removed at any time for good, and sufficient cause by the Governing Body.
§1-222   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall be the Electrical Inspector. He
shall have the power to hire the necessary expert assistance to aid in his
duties. The Municipal Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to
the installation of electrical wiring, and connections thereto. When acting in
good faith, and without malice in the scope of his official duties, he shall
not himself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons, or property as the result of any act required by him, or by reason of
any act or omission in the discharge of his duties. He shall, in the discharge
of his official duties, and upon proper identification, have authority to enter
into any building, structure, or premise at any reasonable hour. He shall
perform such other duties, and issue any permits that the Governing Body may
direct. The Electrical Inspector may be removed at any time for good and
sufficient cause by the Governing Body.
§1-223   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall be appointed to act as the Plumbing
Inspector. He shall have the power to hire the necessary expert assistance to
aid in his duties. The Municipal Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws
relating to the installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting
in good faith, and without malice in the scope of his official duties, he shall
not himself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons, or property as the result of any act required by him or by reason of
any act, or omission in the discharge of his duties. He shall, in the discharge
of his official duties, and upon proper identification, have authority to enter
into any building, structure, or premise at any reasonable hour. He shall
perform such other duties and issue any permits that the Governing Body may
direct. The Plumbing Inspector may be removed at any time for good and
sufficient cause by the Governing Body.
§1-224   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
The Mayor shall appoint a Planning and Zoning Administrator. The Administrator
shall have such duties as the Governing Body may determine.
Article 3. Bonds and Oath
§1-301   BONDS; FORM.
Official bonds of the Municipality shall be in form, joint and several, and
shall be made payable to the Municipality in such penalty as the Governing Body
may set by resolution; Provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the State of Nebraska, for
each particular official. All official bonds of the Municipal officials shall
be executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two (2)
sufficient sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official
as principal and by a surety company; Provided no Municipal official, while
still in his official term of office, shall be accepted as surety on any other
official's bond, contractor's bond, license bond, or appeal bond under any
circumstances. Only companies that are legally authorized to transact business
in the State of Nebraska shall be eligible for suretyship on the bond of an
official of the Municipality. All said bonds shall obligate the principal, and
sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such
principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the Municipality and any persons
who may be injured by a breach of the conditions of such bonds. No bond shall
be deemed to be given or complete until the approval of the Governing Body, and
all sureties are endorsed in writing on the said instrument by the Mayor and
Municipal Clerk pursuant to the said approval of the Governing Body. The
premium on any official bond required to be given may be paid out of the
General Fund, or other proper Municipal fund, upon a resolution to that effect
by the Governing Body at the beginning of any Municipal year. All official
bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk
for his official records, and it shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed upon the payment of a fee which
shall be set by resolution of the Governing Body. In the event that the
sureties on the official bond of any officer of the Municipality, in the
opinion of the Governing Body, become insufficient. the Governing Body may, by
resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the said officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event that the officer should
fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond, or additional sureties to the
satisfaction, and approval of the Governing Body then the office shall, by such
failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the
Governing Body to appoint a competent, and qualified person to fill the said
office. Any official who is re-elected to office shall be required to file a
new bond after each election. (Ref. 11-103 thru 11-118, 17-604 RS Neb.)
§1-302   OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
All officials of the Municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
"I     do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies
foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same;
that I take this obligation freely, and without mental reservation, or for the
purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully and impartially perform the
duties of the office of    , according to law, and to the best of my ability.
And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and that during
such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a member of
any political party or United States or of this State by force or violence. So
help me God."
(Ref. 11-101 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Corporate Seal
§1-401   SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office of
the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, "Seal, City of
Newman Grove, Nebraska." The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the
said official seal to all licenses. permits, ordinances, and all other official
papers issued by order of the Governing Body and countersigned by the Municipal
Clerk. (Ref. 17-502 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Meetings
§1-501   MEETINGS; DEFINED.
Meetings, as used in this Article shall mean all regular, special, or called
meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of briefing,
discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the taking of
any action. (Ref. 84-1409(2) RS Neb.)
§1-502   MEETINGS; PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
Public Body as used in this Article shall mean:
   A.   The Governing Body of the Municipality,
   B.   All independent boards, commissions, committees, or any other bodies,
now or hereafter created by Constitution, statute or otherwise pursuant to law,
and
   C.   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
This Article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body. (Ref. 84-1409(1) RS Neb.)
§1-503   MEETINGS; PUBLIC.
All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a Municipal public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the Governing Body usually holds such
meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some
other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice
of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all
members of the Governing Body and to the public by a method designated by the
Governing Body or by the Mayor if the Governing Body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later
than (a) twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled commencement of the
meeting or (b) forty-eight (48) hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Governing Body scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
Municipality. The Governing Body shall have the right to modify the agenda to
include items of an emergency nature only at such public meetings. The minutes
of the Municipal Clerk shall include the record of the manner and advance time
by which the advance publicized notice was given, a statement of how the
availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was communicated, the time
and specific place of the meetings, and the names of each member of the
Governing Body present or absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of the
Governing Body shall be a public record open to inspection by the public upon
request at any reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any
official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
taken only by roll call vote of the Governing Body in open session. The record
of the Municipal Clerk shall show how each member voted, or that the member was
absent and did not vote. (Ref. 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413 RS Neb.)
§1-504   MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (1)   (a)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         1.   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         2.   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
         3.   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         4.   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (b)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (2)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (1)(a)1. of this
section.
   (3)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. (Ref. 84-1410 RS Neb.)
§1-504.01   MEETINGS; PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (1)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this Article or the Open Meetings
Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social gathering,
email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the requirements of this Article or the Act.
   (2)   This Article and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power. (Ref. 84-1410
RS Neb.)
§1-505   MEETINGS; EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of Section
1-508 of this Article shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the
emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to
the public by no later than the end of the next regular business day. (Ref. 84-
1411 RS Neb.)
§1-506   MEETINGS; MINUTES.
   (1)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (2)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (3)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten (10)
working days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the City may have an additional ten (10) days working days if the
employee responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness
or emergency. (Ref. 84-1413 RS Neb.)
§1-507   MEETINGS; VOTES.
Any action taken on any ordinance and on any resolution to enter into a
contract, shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and
the record shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or
not voting.
The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by secret
ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be recorded in
the minutes. (Ref. 17-616, 841413 RS Neb.)
§1-508   MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
The Municipal Clerk, in the case of the City Council and the Secretary, or
other designee of each public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting, and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)
§1-509   MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
Subject to the provisions of this Article, the public shall have the right to
attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all or any part
of a meeting of a public body except for closed meetings called pursuant to
Section
1-504 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment, or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
It shall not be a violation of this Section for any public body to make and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of persons
attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing, broadcasting,
or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow citizens to
speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all
meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself. No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the
provisions of this Article hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be
too small to accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be
deemed in violation of this Section if it holds its meeting in its traditional
meeting place which is located in this State. An agency which contracts with
Municipalities outside the State of Nebraska may hold meetings of any Committee
outside the State of Nebraska if such meetings are held only in such
contracting Municipalities. Final Action on any agenda item shall only be taken
by the agency at a meeting in the State of Nebraska, which meeting shall comply
with Sections 841408 to 84-1414 RS Neb. The public body shall, upon request,
make a reasonable effort to accommodate the public's right to hear the
discussion and testimony presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall make
available at the meeting, for examination and copying by members of the public,
at least one (1) copy of all reproducible written material to be discussed at
an open meeting. Public bodies shall make available at least one (1) current
copy of the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information. (Ref.
84-1412, 18-2438 RS Neb.)
§1-510   MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
All meetings of the Governing Body shall be open to the public. Promptly at the
hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk, the Mayor, and such other Municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the Municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the following order:
Roll Call
Reading and Approval of the Minutes of the Previous Meeting Consideration of
Petitions and other Communications
Reports of Officers, Boards, and Committees
Unfinished Business of the Preceding Meeting
Introduction of Ordinances and Resolutions First Reading
Second Reading of Ordinances
Third Reading of Ordinances
Final Passage of Ordinances
New Business
Miscellaneous Business
Appropriations and Consideration of Claims
Adjournment
§1-511   MEETINGS; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the Governing Body and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Governing Body. When
any person is called to order, he shall be seated until the point is decided.
When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the meeting room.
Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from his seat and address
himself to the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine himself to
the question. When two (2) or more persons rise at once, the Mayor shall
recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall be reduced
to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the Municipal Clerk, or any
member of the Governing Body. Every member of the Governing Body who is present
when a question is voted upon, shall cast his vote unless excused by a majority
of the Governing Body present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Governing Body making the motion, or resolution
shall be entered also. After each vote, the "Yeas" and "Nays" shall be taken,
and entered in the minutes upon the request of any member of the Governing
Body. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or proposed
ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor thereof with the
consent of the member of the Governing Body seconding the said resolution,
motion, or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different
times, or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum,
or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a
member voting with the majority, but such motion to reconsider must be made
before the expiration of the third (3rd) regular meeting after the initial
consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no motion
shall be made, entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion
to table, and to adjourn. Each of the said motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the Governing Body for meetings may be suspended by
a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members present. In all cases in which
provisions are not made by these rules, Robert's Rules of Order is the
authority by which the Governing Body shall decide all procedural disputes that
may arise.
§1-512   MEETINGS; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
The change in office shall be made as follows: The Mayor and Council shall meet
on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a Municipal
election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members of the
Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having completed
its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council shall
surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same. (Ref. 17-107.02(9) RS Neb.)
§1-513   MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONAL.
The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in the
City on the first (1st) regular meeting in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the City to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as "President of the Council." The Mayor shall
then nominate his candidates for appointive offices. He shall then proceed with
the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every
member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer
elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first (1st) regular meeting in
December following his election. All appointive officers shall qualify within
two (2) weeks following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who
is not required to give bond shall consist in his subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the
State of Nebraska, the laws of the Municipality and to perform faithfully and
impartially the duties of his office, said oath to be filed in the office of
the Municipal Clerk. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the
required bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, with the
oath endorsed thereon.
§1-514   MEETINGS; REGULAR MEETING.
The meetings of the Governing Body shall be held in the meeting place of the
Municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second (2nd) Thursday of
each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
A majority of all the members of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. (Ref. 17-105 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 409,
5/13/93; 462, 9/18/03; 470, 3/10/05; 479, 4/12/07)
§1-515   MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of the City
Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing. The
call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall notify the Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating
the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a
Councilmember known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present.
A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and
compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or
not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
ifabsent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor and
the President of the Council, the City Councilmembers shall elect a President
pro tempore. All ordinances passed at any special meeting shall comply with
procedures set forth in Chapter 1, Article 6 herein. (Ref. 17-106 RS Neb.)
Article 6. Ordinances
§1-601   ORDINANCES; GRANT OF POWER.
The Governing Body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the State of Nebraska, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the
peace, good government, and welfare of the Municipality and its trade,
commerce, and security. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.)
§1-602   ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in either of
the following ways:
   1.   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Council read aloud the
substance of his proposed ordinance and file a copy of the same with the
Municipal Clerk for future consideration;
   2.   Or with the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may present his
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
same and shall file the same for future consideration.
§1-603   ORDINANCES; RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one (1) time in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said
resolutions or motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote
shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution
or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§1-604   ORDINANCES; STYLE.
The style of all Municipal ordinances shall be:
"Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska:
" (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§1-605   ORDINANCES; TITLE.
No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title. (Ref.
17-614 RS Neb.)
§1-606   ORDINANCES; PASSAGE.
Ordinances, resolutions, or orders for the appropriation of money shall require
for their passage the concurrence of the majority of the members of the
Governing Body. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
the title on three (3) different days. This requirement may be suspended by
three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Council, in such case said ordinance may be
read by title or number and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths (3/4)
of the Council may require any ordinance to be read in full before final
passage under either process. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
§1-607   ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one (1) time within
fifteen (15) days after they are passed in (a) some newspaper published in the
Municipality or if no paper is published in the Municipality, then by posting a
written or printed copy thereof in each of three (3) public places in the
Municipality or (b) in book or pamphlet form. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§1-608   ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the Municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§1-609   ORDINANCES; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three (3) of the most public places in the
Municipality. Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by
a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Governing Body, and entered upon the
Municipal Clerk's minutes. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§1-610   ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
Article 7. Elections
§1-701   ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
The Municipal primary and general election shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter Thirty-two (32) Revised Statutes of Nebraska. Said
elections shall be held in conjunction with the State Primary and General
Election. Prior to February one (1) of the year in which the first (1st) such
joint election takes place, the Governing Body shall receive the consent in
writing of the County Board to so hold the election and such authorization
shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk shall have charge
of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk
for Municipal election purposes. Charges shall be paid to the County Clerk as
set forth in Section 32-4,147 RS Neb.
Commencing with the Statewide Primary Election in 1976, and every two (2) years
thereafter, those candidates for Mayor and for positions on the City Council
whose terms will be expiring shall be nominated at the Statewide Primary
Election and elected at the Statewide General Election. (Ref. 17-107.02(1).(2),
32-4,146, 32-4,147 RS Neb.)
§1-702   ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two (2) for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required. (Ref. 17-107.02(4) RS Neb.)
§1-703   ELECTIONS; TIE VOTES.
In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before the
canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be given
accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail. (Ref. 17-107.02
(6) RS Neb.)
§1-704   ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION, PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition, or write-in
procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in preparing
the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the names of
the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary, but in no
event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than twice the
number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
The County Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the general
election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes received
at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the name of the
candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing. (Ref. 17-107.02 (6) & (7) RS Neb.)
§1-705   ELECTIONS; JOINT, GENERAL.
The general Municipal election shall be held in accordance with the provisions
of Chapter thirty-two (32), Revised Statutes of Nebraska. The Governing Body
has determined, by ordinance duly adopted, to hold the Municipal Election in
conjunction with the Statewide Primary Election, held on the first (1st)
Tuesday after the second (2nd) Monday in May of each even numbered year. Prior
to February one (1) of the year, in which the first such Joint election takes
place, the Governing Body shall receive the consent in writing of the County
Board to so hold the election and such authorization shall be prescribed
according to State law. The County Clerk shall have charge of the election and
shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk for Municipal election
purposes. (Ref. 32-505, 32-4,147 RS Neb.)
§1-706   ELECTIONS; JOINT, GENERAL, NOTICE.
The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than forty (40) days prior to the Primary or
General Election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all
Municipal Elections which are held in conjunction with the County. (Ref. 32-
402.01 RS Neb.)
§1-707   ELECTIONS; FILING FEE.
Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to the
Municipal Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to one (1%) percent of the
annual salary for the office for which the candidate will file; Provided, there
shall be no filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per
diem is paid rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of
less than five hundred ($500.00) dollars per year. No nominating papers shall
be filed until the proper Municipal Treasurer's receipt, showing the payment of
the filing fee, shall be presented to the election officer with whom the
nomination papers are to be filed. (Ref. 32-513 RS Neb.)
§1-708   ELECTIONS; OFFICIALS.
The County Clerk shall at least fifteen (15) days prior to the State Primary
Elections, give notice of the appointment by each political party of three (3)
judges and two (2) clerks of election in the Municipality, to be known as the
Receiving Board. Each of the appointees referred to shall be of good character,
approved integrity, well informed, able to read, write, and speak the English
language, reside in City, be entitled to vote in his election unit, and hold
office for a term of two (2) years, or until judges and clerks of election are
appointed for the next State Primary Election. (Ref. 32-403 thru 32-412 RS
Neb.)
§1-709   ELECTIONS; OFFICIALS OATH.
Previous to any votes being received, the judges and clerks of election shall
severally take an oath or affirmation according to the form authorized by State
law. If there is no judge present at the opening of the polls, it shall be
lawful for the judges of election to administer the oath to each other and the
clerks of election. The person administering such oath shall cause an entry to
be made thereof and affixed to each poll book. (Ref. 11-101.01, 19-3015, 32-
413, 32-414 RS Neb.)
§1-710   ELECTIONS; VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Nebraska, except school elections; Provided, no
person shall be qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a
resident of the State and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county. (Ref. 17-602, 32-102 RS Neb.)
§1-711   ELECTIONS; AT LARGE.
All elections in the City of Newman Grove shall be elections held at large. The
polling place shall be the City Hall. (Ref. 5-108 RS Neb.)
§1-712   ELECTIONS; COUNCILMEMBERS.
Councilmembers shall be elected from the Municipality at large. Councilmembers
shall serve for a term of four (4) years and shall be a resident and qualified
elector. (Ref. 5-108 RS Neb.)
§1-713   ELECTIONS; BALLOTS.
The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general Municipal
election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the Municipality. (Ref. 32417, 32-418 RS
Neb.)
§1-714   ELECTIONS; INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased, or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he was a candidate, and the electorate had
reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the candidate
in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall be
declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
Provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than thirty-
five (35%) per cent of the total number of votes cast for such office in the
election. If any of the qualifications of this Section are not met by the
candidate to be declared elected, or reasonable notice of the winners
ineligibility is not available to the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be
declared to exist at the time of commencement of the term and shall be filled
as prescribed by law. (Ref. 32-537 (7) and (8) RS Neb.)
§1-715   ELECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
After the canvass of the vote at the Municipal election, the Municipal Clerk
shall prepare a certificate of election for each person whom the Canvassing
Board has declared to have received the highest vote, and in the form as nearly
as possible prescribed by State law, which shall be signed by the Mayor under
the seal of the Municipality, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. The
said certificate shall then be delivered to the persons so elected. (Ref. 19-
3040, 19-3041, 32-4,111, 324,152 RS Neb.)
§1-716   ELECTIONS; TERM OF OFFICE.
All elected officers of the Municipality shall serve a term of four (4) years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified. (Ref. 17-107.02 (2)
RS Neb.)
§1-717   ELECTIONS; SPECIAL.
   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in section 77-3444 RS Neb., any issue to be
submitted to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at
least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in sections 32-952 through 32-959 RS Neb. Any other special election
shall be subject to division (2) of this section.
      (b)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the City may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (c)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council. (Ref. 32-559 RS Neb.)
   (2)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. (Ref. 32-405 RS Neb.)
§1-718   ELECTIONS; PETITION CANDIDATES.
Candidates for any Municipal office in the Municipality may be nominated by
petition. Petitions shall contain signatures ofregistered voters totaling not
less than ten percent (10%) of total votes received by the candidate receiving
the highest number of votes in the Municipality or ward at the preceding
general election in which officers were last elected to such office. They shall
be accompanied by a treasurer's receipt for the filing fees for the office
being sought. All petitions shall provide a space at least two and one half
(2½) inches long for written signatures, a space at least two (2) inches long
for printed names, and sufficient space for any additional information which
may be required. Lines on such petitions shall not be less than one-fourth (1/
4) inch apart. Petitions may be designed in such a manner that lines for
signatures and other information run the length of the page rather than the
width. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Section 32-713 RS Neb. Petitions must be filed at least sixty
(60) prior to the State Primary. (Ref. 32-4,156, 32-504, 32-513, 32535, 32-713
RS Neb.)
§1-719   ELECTIONS; RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk. (Ref. 32-1301 RS
Neb.)
   (2)   (a)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the City may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (b)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election. (Ref. 32-1302 RS
Neb.)
   (3)   (a)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least thirty-five percent (35%) of the total vote cast for that office in the
last general election, except that for City Council office for which more than
one (1) candidate is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters
equal in number to at least thirty-five percent (35%) of the number of votes
cast for the person receiving the most votes for such office in the last
general election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall
be considered part of the petition.
      (b)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of sections
32-629 and 32-630 RS Neb.
      (c)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the filing clerk by at least one (1) registered voter. Such voter or
voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the
recall petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official
sought to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of
sixty (60) words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and
shall request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the
principal circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the
official sought to be removed by any method specified in section 25-505.01 RS
Neb. or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the
methods specified in section 25-505.01 RS Neb., by leaving a copy of the
affidavit at the official's usual place of residence and mailing a copy by
first-class mail to the official's last-known address. If the official chooses,
he or she may submit a defense statement in typewritten form in concise
language of sixty (60) words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within twenty (20)
days after the official receives the copy of the affidavit. The filing clerk
shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the necessary
signatures must be gathered within thirty (30) days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (d)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (e)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of sections 32-
629 and 32-630 RS Neb. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered
voter and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question. (Ref. 32-1303 RS Neb.)
   (4)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of section 32-
1304 RS Neb.
   (5)   (a)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within thirty (30) days after the filing
clerk issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or
circulators as provided in division (3) of this section.
      (b)   Within fifteen (15) days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose. (Ref. 32-1305 RS Neb.)
   (6)   (a)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in section 25-505.01 RS
Neb. or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the
methods specified in section 25-505.01 RS Neb., by leaving such notice at the
official's usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to
the official's last-known address.
      (b)   The City Council shall order an election to be held not less than
thirty (30) nor more than forty-five (45) days after the notification of the
official whose removal is sought under division (6)(a) of this section, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within ninety (90) days
after such notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the
recall election on the same day. All resignations shall be tendered as provided
in section 32-562 RS Neb. If the official whose removal is sought resigns
before the recall election is held, the City Council may cancel the recall
election if the City Council notifies the election commissioner or county clerk
of the cancellation at least sixteen (16) days prior to the election, otherwise
the recall election shall be held as scheduled.
      (c)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election. (Ref. 32-1306 RS Neb.)
   (7)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (6) of this section shall conform to the requirements of section 32-
1307 RS Neb.
   (8)   (a)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (9) of
this section.
      (b)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and sections 32-567 to 32-570 RS Neb.
      (c)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to one percent
(1%) or less between the removal or retention of the official in question, the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a
recount of the votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a
written statement with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (d)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (e)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Ref. 32-1308 RS Neb.)
   (9)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
twelve (12) months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from
office or within six (6) months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six (6) months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office. (Ref. 32-1309 RS Neb.)
§1-720   ELECTIONS: CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
Any person seeking elected office in the Municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding such office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the City. They shall not hold any other public elective
office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts, and public utility companies. (Ref. 17-108.02, 32-4,157
RS Neb.)
§1-721   ELECTIONS: EXIT POLLS.
No person shall conduct any exit poll. public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within twenty (20') feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if
inside the polling place building, within one hundred (100') feet of any voting
booth. (Ref. 32-1221 RS Neb.)
Article 8. Fiscal Management
§1-801   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FISCAL YEAR
The fiscal year of the Municipality and any public utility of the Municipality
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act. (Ref. 17-701 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 426, 4/11/96)
§1-802   FISCAL MANAGEMENT: FILING BUDGET STATEMENT.
The Governing Body shall, not later than the first (1st) day of August of each
year on forms prescribed and furnished by the Nebraska State Auditor, prepare
in writing and file with the Municipal Clerk a proposed budget statement
containing the following:
   1.   For the immediate two (2) prior fiscal years, the budgeted revenue and
expenditures from all sources, separately stated as to each such source, and
for each fund the budgeted unencumbered cash balance of such fund at the
beginning of each fiscal year.
   2.   For the current fiscal year, the budgeted revenue and expenditures,
from all sources, separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund
the budgeted unencumbered cash balance of such fund at the beginning of the
year. Such statement shall contain the cash resenre for each such fund for each
fiscal year. Such cash resenre projections shall be based upon the actual
experience of prior years. The cash resenre shall not exceed fifty (50%)
percent of the total budget adopted for such fund, exclusive of capital outlay
items; and
   3.   For the immediate ensuing fiscal year, the budget statement should
include an estimate of the non-tax revenue from each source and which fund it
is to be allocated to. the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance for
each fund which will be available at the beginning of the next fiscal year,
amounts proposed to be expended during the year, and the amount of cash resenre
which shall not exceed fifty (50%) percent of the total budget adopted,
exclusive of capital outlay items.
The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the ensuing
fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources other than
taxation shall equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount
shall be shown on the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this Section.
The amount to be raised from taxation, as determined herein, plus the estimated
revenue from sources other than taxation, and the unencumbered balances shall
equal the estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the ensuing
year. (Ref. 23-923, 23-924 RS Neb.)
§1-803   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET HEARING.
Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the Governing Body
shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the proposed
budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the said hearing, as well as
a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five (5) days prior
to the date set for the hearing in the newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality. After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or amended,
and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made of such hearing. If
the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in the published
proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be published within
twenty (20) days after its adoption. (Ref. 23-925 RS Neb.)
§1-804   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF
AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (1)   (a)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 20 of each year
and file with the Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget
statement which complies with sections 13-518 to 13-522 RS Neb., together with
the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out
separately:
         1.   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council; and
         2.   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (b)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (2)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding five percent (5%) of the amount
required plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax
year and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not
certify an amount of tax more than one percent (1%) greater or lesser than the
amount determined under section 13-505 RS Neb.
   (3)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to section 13-509 RS Neb. for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one (1) of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this
section. (Ref. 13-508 RS Neb.)
§1-805   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURE.
The Manual oflnstructions for Village: Budgets, prepared by the Auditor of
Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is incorporated by
reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§1-806   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATIONS.
The Governing Body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed "The Annual Appropriation Bill' in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the City. (Ref. 17-706 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. No. 424, 4/11/96)
§1-807   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
The Governing Body shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount
of tax to be levied upon the assessed value of all the taxable property of the
Municipality for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes. The maximum amount of tax which
may be certified and assessed shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
legal maximum as prescribed by State law. (Ref. 17-702 RS Neb.)
§1-808   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES.
No Municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw any
order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement to be
paid for out of the general fund of the Municipality shall exceed in any 1 year
the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget statement. (Ref.
17-708 RS Neb.)
§1-809   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER
REQUIREMENTS.
   (1)   Except as provided in section 18-412.01 RS Neb. for a contract with a
public power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric
distribution, transmission, or generation system of the Municipality, no
contract for enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property, costing over thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) shall be made
unless it is first approved by the Governing Body.
   (2)   Except as provided in section 18-412.01 RS Neb., before the Governing
Body makes any contract in excess of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an
estimate of the cost shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to
the Governing Body. In advertising for bids as provided in subsections (3) and
(5) of this section, the Governing Body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (3)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) entered into (a) for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of
such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, or (b) for the
purchase of equipment used in the construction of such enlargement or general
improvements.
   (4)   A Municipal Electric Utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is: (a) Thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) or less; (b) sixty
thousand dollars ($60,000.00) or less and the Municipal Electric Utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00); (c) ninety thousand dollars ($90,000.00) or less and the
Municipal Electric Utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess
of five million dollars ($5,000,000.00); or (d) one hundred twenty thousand
dollars ($120,000.00) or less and the Municipal Electric Utility has gross
annual revenue from retail sales in excess of ten million dollars
($10,000,000.00).
   (5)   The advertisement provided for in subsection (3) of this section shall
be published at least seven (7) days prior to the bid closing in a legal
newspaper published in or of general circulation in the Municipality and, if
there is no legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
Municipality, then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the
county in which the Municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper
of general circulation published in the county in which the Municipality is
located, then in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general
circulation within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is
published in the Municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general
circulation in the county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in
each of three (3) public places in the Municipality at least seven (7) days
prior to the bid closing. In case of a public emergency resulting from
infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war,
or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for immediate
action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of, or serious injury or damage to,
life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids may be
waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by section 17-613 RS Neb. when
adopted by a 3/4 vote of the Governing Body and entered of record.
   (6)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
Governing Body receives fewer than two (2) bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the Governing Body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the Governing Body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (7)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Governing Body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing Municipality, the Governing Body
Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may
thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the
manufacturer.
   (8)   Any Municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the Governing Body
(a) when materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the
same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained
pursuant to the State bidding procedure in sections 81-145 to 81-162 RS Neb. or
(b) when the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop pursuant
to section 48-1503 RS Neb.
   (9)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
Municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For purposes of this subsection:
      (a)   Personal property includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency; and
      (b)   Purchasing or purchase means the obtaining of personal property by
sale, lease, or other contractual means. (Ref. 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756 RS
Neb.)
§1-810   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the Municipal accounts to be made by
a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of the
fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Governing Body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six (6) months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
(3) copies of the audit report to the Governing Body. All public utilities or
other enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be
audited separately, and the results of such audits shall appear separately in
the annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the Municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two (2) copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk's office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One (1) copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
Every Governing Body that is required herein to submit to an audit of its
accounts shall provide and file with the Municipal Clerk, not later than August
1 of each year, financial statements showing its actual and budgeted figures
for the most recently completed fiscal year. (Ref. 19-2901 thru 19-2909, 23-934
RS Neb.)
§1-811   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS.
All claims against the Municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body in
writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this Section. No costs
shall be recovered against the Municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of eighty-five (85%) per cent of the current
levy for the purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient
money in the Municipal Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to
be drawn: Provided, that in the event there exists obligated funds from the
Federal and/or State government for the general purpose of such warrant, then
such warrant may be drawn in excess of eighty-five (85%) per cent, but not more
than one hundred (100%) per cent of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn. (Ref. 17-714, 17-715 RS Neb.)
§1-812   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; WARRANTS.
All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of the
expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each
warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for
the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Ref. 17-711 RS Neb.)
§1-813   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
The Governing Body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the Governing Body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
healing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a wrttten statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such healings. Notice of a place, and time for the said healing shall be
published at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the healing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time, and place of the proposed healing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
oliginally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
Governing Body, the Governing Body shall file with the County Clerk and the
Nebraska State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the
amount of additional tax to be levied. The Governing Body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental
budget. The said warrants shall be referred to as "registered warrants," and
shall be repaid duling the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes
levied therefor. (Ref. 23-928, 23-929 RS Neb.)
§1-814   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the Municipality for money expended for any such
improvement. (Ref. 17-710 RS Neb.)
§1-815   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SINKING FUNDS.
The Governing Body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have the
power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by State law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the Municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by State law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
Municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by State law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the Governing
Body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the Municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general Municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed, and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three (3) times on
successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority, or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The Governing Body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition, and applicable
State law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the Governing
Body in the manner provided by State law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the Governing Body is authorized to do so by sixty (60%) per
cent of the qualified electors of the Municipality voting at a general election
favoring such a change in the use of the sinking fund. (Ref. 19-1301 thru 19-
1304, 772337, 77-2339 RS Neb.)
§1-816   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL FUND.
All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill shall
be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§1-817   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
The Governing Body, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall designate
one (1) or more banks of approved and responsible standing in which the
Municipal Treasurer shall keep at all times all money held by him: Provided, if
more than one (1) bank in the Municipality meets the requirements for approved
banks as herein defined, the said funds shall be deposited in each of them, and
the Municipal Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one (1) or more of
them in the money he shall deposit. A bond shall be required from all banks so
selected in a penal sum which equals the maximum amount on deposit at any time
less the amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation or a pledge of sufficient assets of the bank to secure the payment
of all such deposits. (Ref. .17-607, 77-2362 thru 77-2364 RS Neb.)
§1-818   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its current
needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds and the
money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the principal
and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current year, the
governing body of such city may invest any such surplus in certificates of
deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the state investment
officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date the
investment is made. (Ref. 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01, 77-2341 RS Neb.)
§1-819   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BOND, ISSUES.
The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of State law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
State law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by State law.
(Ref. 10-201 thru 10-411, 10-601 thru 10614, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-529.08, 17-
534, 17-905, 17-908,17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 thru 18-1805,
23343.13, 39-836 RS Neb.)
§1-820   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
The Governing Body of the city may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or
used in such city. Until the implementation date designated by the Director of
Motor Vehicles under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax shall be paid to the county
treasurer of the county in which such city is located when the registration
fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle Registration Act are paid. Such taxes
shall be credited by county treasurer to the road fund of such city. On and
after the implementation date designated under Neb. RS 23-186, the tax shall be
paid to the County Treasurer for credit to such road fund. These funds shall be
used by such city for constructing, resurfacing, maintaining, or improving
streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or parts thereof, for the amortization of
bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes. (Ref. 18-1214 RS Neb.)
§1-821   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SALES AND USE TAX.
   (1)   By reason of the approval of the voters of the City of Newman Grove,
Nebraska at the Special Election held within the City on August 31, 1999, and
pursuant to the Nebraska Local Option Revenue Act, the City does hereby impose
a sales and use tax of one and one-half (1½) percent upon the same transactions
within the City upon which the State of Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax,
with said sales and use tax to become effective upon the first day of January,
2000.
   (2)   A certified map of the City clearly showing the boundaries of said
City is hereby incorporated by reference into this section.
   (3)   By reason of the approval of the voters of the City at the Special
Election held on August 31, 1999, the City shall increase its budgeted
restricted funds for fiscal year 1999-2000 by $34,000 (20%) over the current
year's (1998-1999) restricted funds.
   (4)   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this section,
including the ascertainment, assessment, collection, distribution and making
ofretums for said tax shall be as provided in the Local Option Revenue Act.
   (5)   After passage and adoption of this section, the City Clerk is directed
to mail or deliver a certified copy of Ordinance 442, passed September 9, 1999,
and a certified map of the City clearly showing the boundaries thereof to the
Nebraska Tax Commissioner.
   (6)   The proceeds of the sale and use taxes imposed by this section shall
be used for any lawful purpose which may include but not be limited to general
expenses, funding for the payment of capital improvements, which shall include
the payment of interest and principal of any bonds and the principal and
interest of any loan funds used to finance capital improvements, and to use
33%% of the total sales tax receipts to fund an Economic Development Plan
separately approved by the Governing Body. (Ord. No. 442, 9/9/99) (Amended by
Res. No. 2015-07, 11/12/15)
§1-822   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CELL PHONE FEE REIMBURSEMENT.
Full-time City employees are required to carry a cell phone. If the authorized
employee chooses to carry his own personal cell phone, instead of a City
provided cell phone, and uses his personal cell phone number to be contacted
for City business, the City will compensate said full time employees at the
rate thirty dollars ($30.00) per month. Said payment shall be a direct
reimbursement and non-taxable as income representing the actual cost of said
service, and will be paid in the monthly claims. (Res. No. 2015-02, 3/12/15)
Article 9. Compensation
§1-901   COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
The compensation of any elective official of the Municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected
except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the compensation of
the members of the Governing Body, a board, or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether or not the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No elected
official may be rehired at a greater salary if he resigns and desires to be
rehired during the unexpired term of office. He may be rehired after the term
of office during which he resigned at a greater salary. The salary and
compensation of the Mayor shall be $400.00 (four hundred) dollars per month,
payable quarterly. The salary and compensation of each Council member shall be
$200.00 (two hundred) dollars per month, payable quarterly. (Ref. 17-108.02,
17-612 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 454, 4/11/02; 525, 3/8/18)
§1-902   COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   BUSINESS ASSOCIATION means a business:
         (a)   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability company
member, director, or officer; or
         (b)   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more at fair market value or which represents
more than a five percent (5%) equity interest or is a stockholder of publicly
traded stock worth ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more at fair market
value or which represents more than ten percent (10%) equity interest.
An individual who occupies a confidential professional relationship protected
by law shall be exempt from this definition. This definition shall not apply to
publicly traded stock under a trading account if the filer reports the name and
address of the stockbroker. (Ref. 49-1408 RS Neb.)
      (2)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY means a child residing in an individual's
household, a spouse of an individual, or an individual claimed by that
individual or that individual's spouse as a dependent for federal income tax
purposes. (Ref. 49-1425 RS Neb.)
      (3)   OFFICER means:
         (a)   A member of any board or commission of the Municipality which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
such board or commission; or
         (b)   Any elected Municipal official.
      OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance drivers with
respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in sections 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04 RS Neb.,
no officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her Governing
Body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the county attorney, the Governing Body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the Governing Body and shall be brought within one (1) year
after the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the Governing Body has benefited thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the Governing Body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the Governing Body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the Governing Body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the Governing Body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who:
      (1)   Has no business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
      (2)   Will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result
of the contract shall not be deemed to have an interest within the meaning of
this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (F)   If an officer's parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer's governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to:
      (1)   All employees; or
      (2)   All employees within a classification and do not single out his or
her parent, spouse, or child for special action.
   (G)   Section 49-14,102 RS Neb. does not apply to contracts covered by this
section. (Ref. 49-14,103.01 RS Neb.)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the Governing Body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in subdivisions (a) through (e) of this division (H)(l)
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five (5)
years from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the Governing Body;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten (10) days after the contract has been signed by both parties.
The ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Ref. 49-14,103.02 RS Neb.)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within ten (10) days after such account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the Governing Body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section. (Ref. 49-14,103.03 RS Neb.)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the
Governing Body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the Governing Body may have an interest. (Ref. 49-14,103.05 RS Neb.)
   (K)   The Governing Body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less in which an
officer of such body may have an interest. (Ref. 49-14,103.06 RS Neb.)
Article 10. Intergovernmental Risk Management
§1-1001   INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT; AUTHORITY.
The Governing Body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Section
44-4303 RS Neb., may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action in accordance with Sections 44-4301 through 44-4339 RS Neb.,
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
   1.   General liability;
   2.   Damage, destruction, or loss or real or personal property, including
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   3.   Errors and omissions liability; and
   4.   Workers' compensation liability.
(Ref. 44-4301 thru 44-4339 RS Neb.)
Article 11. General Provisions
§1-1101   GENERAL PROVISIONS; RETENTION OF SECOND CLASS CITY STATUS.
That the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska shall remain a City of the Second Class
and such City shall continue to be governed by the laws of this state
applicable to Cities of the second class. (Ord. No. 417, 12/8/94)
Chapter 2
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Article 1. Standing Committees
§2-101   STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members fo such standing committees as the City Council may by ordinance, or
resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at
any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one (1) year, unless reappointed.
Article 2. Commissions and Boards
§2-201   BOARD OF HEALTH.
The Governing Body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist of four
(4) members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall serve
as chairman; the Police Chief, who shall serve as secretary and quarantine
officer; a physician, or other healthcare provider who shall serve as the
medical advisor; and the President of the City Council. The members of the
Board shall serve, without compensation, a one (1) year term of office, unless
reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first (1st) meeting in June of each
year. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with Municipal Clerk
where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
Board of Health shall be funded by the Governing Body from time to time out of
the General Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing
Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairman,
or any two (2) members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact
rules and regulations which shall have the full force and effect of law, to
safeguard the health of the residents of the Municipality. Included in the
duties of the Board shall be to enforce the said rules and regulations, and to
provide fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate,
suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce
all laws of the State of Nebraska and ordinances of the Municipality relating
to matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The
Board shall regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the Governing
Body may direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time
to time, designate. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one
(1) Board of Health position. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 463,
1/8104)
§2-202   JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION; AUTHORITY.
The City of Newman Grove joins with the County of Madison in the Madison County
Planning Commission. The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall
appoint a Planning Commissioner who shall be the representative of the City for
the purposes of the Madison County Planning Commission. Any person may appeal
from a decision of the Madison County Planning Commission shall appeal to the
Governing Body which shall have final discretion as to any decision of the
Madison County Planning Commission affecting residents of the City of Newman
Grove and persons within one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning area in which the
Municipality is authorized to exercise its powers.
§2-203   BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
The Governing Body shall appoint the Board of Park Commissioners. The Board
shall consist of not less than three (3) members, who shall be resident
freeholders in the Municipality. The members of the Board shall serve a one (1)
year term of office unless reappointed. The Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Board's first
(1st) meeting in June of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from
their number a President and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary
to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file
the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at
such times as the Governing Body may designate. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the President, or any two (2) of the Board members. It shall
be the duty of the Board to take the immediate charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the Municipality. The Board shall
establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, use, and
operation of the same. All employees of the Municipality doing work in or for
the Municipal park shall be under the supervision and direction of the Board.
All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and control of the
Governing Body. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the Park Commission shall serve in the capacity of both
the President and Secretary of the Board. (Ref. 17-952 RS Neb.)
§2-204   FIREMAN'S BALL PARK BOARD.
The Mayor shall appoint the Fireman's Ball Park Board. The Board shall consist
of two (2) Councihnembers, one (1) member of the Fire Department and three
members of the District Board of Madison County School District 13, as
recommended by said School Board. The Board members shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Governing Body to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Board's first
(1st) meeting in June of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from
its membership a chairman and secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary
to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file
the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at
least once each calendar quarter. Special meetings may be held upon the call of
the chairman, or any two (2) members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the
Board to recommend and to approve the expenditures for the Fireman's Ball Park
equipment and activities. The Board shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time
to time, designate. No member of the Fireman's Ball Park Board shall serve in
the capacity of both the chairman and secretary of the Board. (Ref. 17-952 RS
Neb.)
§2-205   LIBRARY BOARD.
The Library Board shall be appointed by the Mayor. The nominated members must
receive a majority vote of approval by the Governing Body. The Board shall
consist of five (5) members who shall be residents of the Municipality. The
members of the Library Board shall serve a four (4) year term of office. The
Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion
of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the
Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
At the time of the Board's first (1st) meeting in July of each year, the Board
shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairman and Secretary. It
shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where
they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A
majority of the Board members shall constitute aquorum for the transaction of
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairman, or any
three (3) members of the Board. The Library Board shall have the authority to
appoint a librarian and all other employees. It shall be the duty of the Board
to have general charge of the Municipal Library and to establish appropriate
rules and regulations for the management, operation, and use of the same. The
Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees of the library
including the librarian. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the
review and supervision of the Governing Body. The Board shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such additional duties as the Governing
Body may designate from time to time. No member of the Governing Body shall
serve as a member of the Library Board while serving a term of office as a
member of the Governing Body. No member of the Library Board shall serve in the
capacity of both the Chairman and Secretary of the Board. (Ref. 51-202 RS Neb.)
§2-206   TREE BOARD.
   (1)   Creation and Establishment of a City Tree Board. There is hereby
created and established a City Tree Board for the City of Newman Grove,
Nebraska, which shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents of
the City, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council.
   (2)   Term of Office. The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by
the Mayor shall be three (3) years, except that the term of two (2) of the
members appointed to the first board shall be for only one (I) year and the
term of two (2) members of the first board shall be for two (2) years. In the
event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, a successor
shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (3)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (4)   Duties and Responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually,
and administer a written plan for the care, replacement, and removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council and upon their
acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive City tree
plan for the City ofNewman Grove, Nebraska. The Tree Board, when requested by
the City Council, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and
recommend upon any special matter or question coming within the scope of its
work.
   (5)   Operation. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (6)   Review by City Council. The City Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts and decisions ofthe Tree Board. Any person may appeal
from any ruling or order of the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the
matter and make a final decision. (Ord. No. 406, 4/8/93)
§2-207   COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (1)   There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment Authority of the
City of Newman Grove, pursuant to section 18-2102.0 l RS Neb.
   (2)   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the City of Newman Grove
shall have all of the powers set forth in sections 18-2101 through 18-2154 RS
Neb. and any additional powers granted by the legislature of the State of
Nebraska from time to time for community redevelopment authorities.
   (3)   The affairs of the Community Redevelopment Authority of the City of
Newman Grove shall be administered by members of the Authority appointed by the
Mayor of the City of Newman Grove or, if the Chair shall fail to act within
ninety (90) days after the passage of this section, the President or other
presiding officer other than the Mayor of the Governing Body, with the approval
of the Governing Body of the City, shall appoint five (5) persons who shall
constitute the Authority. The terms of office of the members of a five (5)-
member Authority initially appointed shall be for one (1) year, two (2) years,
three (3) years, four (4) years, and five (5) years, as designated by the
Mayor, President, or other presiding officer in making the respective
appointments. As the terms of the members of the Authority expire, the Mayor,
with the approval of the Governing Body of the City, shall appoint or reappoint
a member of the Authority for a term of five (5) years to succeed the member
whose term expires.
   (4)   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the City of Newman Grove, at
its organizational meeting each year shall elect a Chairman, Vice-Chairman and
shall have the power to employ counsel and a director and such other officers
and employees as may be desired. (Ord. No. 499, 1/13/11)
Chapter 3
DEPARTMENTS
Article 1. Water Department
§3-101   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through the
Utilities Director (hereinafter Director). The Governing Body, for the purpose
of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal
Water Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be lmown as the Water Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Director shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. The Director shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body.
The Governing Body shall, by Resolution, set the rates to be charged for
services rendered and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the
Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 17-531, 17-
534, 19-1305 RS Neb.)
§3-102   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Article. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. The term "main" is hereby defined to be any pipe other than a supply
or service pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying water to, and
dispersing the same in the Municipality.
   SUPPLY PIPE. The term "supply pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe tapped
into a main and extending from there to a point at or near the lot line of the
consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock is located.
   SERVICE PIPE. The term "service pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe
extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock at or near the lot line to
and beyond the property line of the consumer to the location on the premise
where the water is to be dispersed.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. The term "separate premise" is hereby defined to be more
than one (1) consumer procuring water from the same service or supply pipe. The
second (2nd) premise may be a separate dwelling. apartment, building, or
structure used for a separate business.
§3-103   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk may require any applicant to make a
service deposit in such amount as has been set by the Governing Body and placed
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Water may not be supplied to any
house or private service pipe except upon the order of the Director or
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-537, 19-2701 RS Neb.)
§3-104   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Governing Body; Provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the Municipality to
provide water service to non-residents or to supply such service at the same
rates as may be charged to residents. (Ref. 19-2701 RS Neb.)
§3-105   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONTRACT.
The Municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The Municipality may furnish
water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a
street or alley in which a Municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter be
laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside
the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when, according to law, the
Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water rates
hereinafter named in this Article, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the Municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Director
or his agent, may cut off or disconnect the water service from the building or
premise or place of such violation. No further connection for water service to
said building, premise, or place shall again be made save or except by order of
said Director or his agent.
§3-106   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the Utilities Director shall have the
duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two (2)
inspections by the Utilities Director. The first (1st) inspection shall be made
when connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second (2nd) inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer's responsibility to notify the Director
at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be
done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations, and specifications prescribed for such installation by the
Director, and reviewed and approved by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-537 RS
Neb.)
§3-107   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
The Municipality shall pay the cost of, installing the meter and providing
fixtures up to and including the stop box at the lot line of the customer. No
person other than the Utilities Director or his duly authorized agent shall tap
the water main. The customer shall pay a tap fee in such sum as the Director
shall require in each case; Provided, that a tap for a three-fourths (3/4")
inch pipe shall be deemed to be the minimum or base tap fee. The customer shall
at his own expense bring water service from the City main and upon his own
premise and shall employ a licensed plumber who shall install water service to
the place of dispersement. Non-residents shall pay such tap fees and
installation charges in such sums as the Director, pursuant to resolution of
the Governing Body, shall in each case fix. The extension of water mains into
unsupplied territory within the corporate limits, may be made by means of water
extension districts. (Amended by Ord No. 487, 7/10/08)
§3-108   MUNICIPAL WATERDEPARTMENT; REP AIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
The Municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply pipe
between the water main and the stop box. The customer, at his own expense,
shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to the
place of use. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities Director shall
shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the expense of the
customer to the satisfaction of the Director. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the Municipality at the expense of the Municipality. When meters are
worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the Municipality at the expense
of the Municipality; Provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water
meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
Utilities Director shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of such
meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested
at the customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number
of times; Provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running two
(2%) percent or more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the
Municipality. The Municipality reserves the right to test any water service
meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair the
Municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer's
water service fixtures at Municipal expense. It shall be unlawful for any
person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or device to divert
water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass through said meter,
or while passing through said meter, to cause the same to register
inaccurately. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§3-109   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; METERS.
All water meters shall be read at least one (1) time per annum. The Municipal
Clerk shall read, or cause to be read, the said meters between the first (1st)
day of April and the first (1st) day of May. In the event that a meter is
broken or otherwise fails to register accurately the use of water by any
consumer, the Municipal Clerk shall use the six (6) month average of the season
one (1) year previous to such breakage for billing purposes; provided, that if
no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount
as may be reasonably fixed by the Governing Body.
§3-110   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
The Governing Body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the
Municipality on the account of the Water Department. He shall faithfully
account for, and pay to the Municipal Treasurer all revenue collected by him,
taking his receipt therefor in duplicate. (Ref. 17-540 RS Neb.)
§3-111   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MINIMUM RATES.
All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate unless and until the
consumer shall, by written order, direct the Director to shut off the water at
the stop box, in which case he shall not be liable thereafter for water rental
until the water is turned on again. (Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.)
§3-112   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER BILLS.
That water fees shall be due and payable quarterly, in advance, on or before
the twentieth (20th) day of May, the twentieth (20th) day of August, the
twentieth (20th) day of November, and the twentieth (20th) day of February of
each year, in accordance with the schedule of water rates adopted and
promulgated by the City Council. If said fees are not paid quarterly by each
individual water customer, on or before the twentieth (20th) day of each
quarter as herein specified, such water fees shall be deemed to be delinquent,
and subject to the provisions of section
3-113 of the Newman Grove Municipal Code. All of said fees shall be paid by
each individual water customer to the City Clerk. (Amended by Ord. No. 392, 7/
11/91)
§3-113   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears. shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are sixty (60) days or more delinquent in the
payment of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Director on the first (1st)
day of June of each year to report to the Governing Body a list of all unpaid
accounts due for water together with a description of the premise upon which
the same was used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the
Governing Body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk
to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-538 RS
Neb.)
§3-114   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SINGLE PREMISE.
No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take water
from his premise, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any person
make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection with the
pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or attachment without the
written permission of the Director. It shall further be unlawful for any person
to tamper with any water meter or by means of any contrivance or device to
divert the water from the service pipe so that the water will not pass through
the meter or while passing through said meter to cause the meter to register
inaccurately. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§3-115   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RESTRICTED USE.
The Governing Body or the Director may order a reduction in the use of water or
shut off the water on any premise in the event of a water shortage due to fire
or other good and sufficient cause. The Municipality shall not be liable for
any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while
the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a
shortage of water due to circumstances over which the Municipality has no
control. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§3-116   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to be
public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members of
the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
§3-117   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLLUTION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any stream
or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department. (Ref. 17-
536 RS Neb.)
§3-118   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT: MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
All persons within three hundred (300') feet of a water main shall be required,
upon notice by the Governing Body, to hook-up with the Municipal Water System.
(Ref. 17-539 RS Neb.)
§3-119   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to change
from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Director who shall cause the water service to be shut
off at the said premise. if the consumer should fail to give such notice, he
shall be charged for all water used on the said premise until the Director is
otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§3-120   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTION.
The Director, or his duly authorized agents, shall have free access, at any
reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building to, or in which,
water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures, and other
portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
unnecessaiy waste of water. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§3-121   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLICE REPORTS.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to report to the Director all
cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all violations of the
Municipal Code relating to the Water Department. They shall have the additional
duty of enforcing the obsetvance of all such regulations.
§3-122   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure,
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Director.
§3-123   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LICENSED PLUMBER.
It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any of
the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the said system until such plumber or pipefitter shall have first procured
a license or permit from the Municipality. All plumbing shall be done in the
manner required by the Director. The said licensed plumber shall be at all
times subject to the inspection and approval of the Director and it shall be
further unlawful to cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory
plumbing work. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§3-124   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; TIME.
All taps or plumbing work done on or to the Municipal water system shall be
done between the hours of eight (8:00) o'clock A.M. and six (6:00) o'clock P.M.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§3-125   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SWING VALVE REQUIRED.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 403, 11/12/92)
§3-126   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; PROIDBITION OF CERTAIN DEVICES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any heat pump, air conditioner,
or similar device or appliance to the water system of the City of Newman Grove,
Nebraska, or to introduce any water furnished through the water system of the
City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, into any such heat pump, air conditioner, or
similar device, intended for the regulation of temperature within any
residential, commercial, public, or other building located within the corporate
limits of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, or served by the water system of
the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska.
§3-127   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; PRIVATE WELLS; CROSS CONNECTIONS;
PROHIBITED; REGISTRATION; STANDARDS.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig, drill or construct a
private water well or test hole within the service area of the Municipal water
system, for a mechanical heat pump device or water cooled air conditioning for
domestic, industrial, commercial or agricultural use. No such digging or
drilling shall be done within one (1) mile from the Municipal corporate limits.
No cross connections shall be allowed from a private water well or from the
Municipal water system, to or from the sanitary or storm sewer. The Director
may inspect any premises when necessary to determine that no such cross
connections exist. If the Director of the Municipality finds that a cross
connection exists, he shall order the use of the private water well to be
permanently discontinued and the installation of a backflow preventer or
backsiphonage device. The owner, tenant and lessee shall be liable severally
and jointly for all damages to the Municipal water system and users caused by
such cross connections.
No existing private water well shall be capped or modified in any manner,
without written permission from the Director and the Governing Body.
§3-128   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS UNLAWFUL
IN WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation, or
other entity to drill, construct, install, or maintain any domestic, stock,
irrigation, or other water well within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
wellhead of any public water supply well now or hereafter drilled, installed,
used, or located by the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, within or adjacent to
the corporate limits of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska.
   (2)   This prohibition shall not affect or limit the use of any water well
now existing and in use within the said 1,000-foot area of Wellhead Protection.
(Ord. No. 395, 9/ 12/91)
[Editor's Note: The following sections
3-129 through
3-140 were adopted in their entirety by Ordinance No. 403, 11/12/92.]
§3-129   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of sections 3-129 through
3-140 is:
      1.   To protect the public potable water supply of the City of Newman
Grove from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer's
internal distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public potable
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross connection, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer's potable water systems and nonpotable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial process systems.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   B.   Application: Sections 3-129 through
3-140 shall apply to all premises seived by the public potable water system of
the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska.
   C.   Policy: Sections 3-129 through
3-140 shall be reasonably interpreted. It is the City's intent to recognize the
varying degrees of hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of
protection shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard.
The City Council and the Municipal Water Department shall be primarily
responsible for protection of the public potable water distribution system from
contamination or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants
through the water seivice connection. The cooperation of all consumers is
required to implement and maintain the program to control cross connections.
The consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of the water system
within consumer's own premises.
§3-130   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
DEFINITIONS.
Definitions applying in the interpretation and enforcement of sections
3-129 through
3-140 shall include those listed below and those definitions contained in TITLE
179, NEBRASKA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, CHAPTER 2, REGUIATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS, now existing or hereafter amended, which said Nebraska
Department of Health definitional regulations are incorporated herein as if
fully set forth.
   1.   Approved Tester means a person qualified to make inspections; the test
and repair of backflow prevention/cross connection control devices; and who is
approved by the City.
   2.   Authorized Representative means any person designated by the City to
administer this cross connection control ordinance.
   3.   Auxiliazy water supply means any water source system, other than the
public water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   4.   Consumer means the owner or person in control of any premises supplied
by or in any manner connected to the public water system of the City.
   5.   Containment means protection of the public water supply by installing a
cross connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line
to a facility or premises, or as an installation within equipment handling
potentially hazardous materials.
   6.   Hazard, Degree Of means an evaluation of the potential risk to public
health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      a.   Hazard-Health - Any condition, device, or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well-being of the water consumer.
      b.   Hazard-Plumbing - A plumbing type cross connection in a consumer's
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air-gap separation or backflow prevention device.
      c.   Hazard-Pollutional - An natural or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the consumer's potable water system but
which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could
cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to
health.
      d.   Hazard-System - An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   7.   Isolation means protection of a facility service line by installing a
cross connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance, or system.
   8.   Water Department means the Municipal Water Department of the City of
Newman Grove, Nebraska.
   9.   Vacuum Breaker, Atmospheric Type means a vacuum breaker which is not
designed to be subject to static line pressure.
   10.   Vacuum Breaker. Pressure Type means a vacuum breaker which is
designated to be subject to static line pressure.
§3-131   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; CROSS
CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   A.   No water seivice connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connections to the public water supply
system may exist, unless such actual or potential cross connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of the City of its authorized
representatives.
   B.   No connections shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliazy
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
   C.   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Municipal Water Department or the City Council as necessary for the protection
of health and safety.
§3-132   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; SURVEY
AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
City or its authorized representative, for the conduction of smveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer's premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections to the
consumer's water system.
   B.   On request by the City or its authorized representatives, the consumer
shall furnish requested information on water use practices within his or her
premises and in the consumer's water system.
   C.   On request by the City or its authorized representatives, the consumer
shall conduct periodic surveys of water use practices on the premises of the
consumer's water system to determine whether there are actual or potential
cross connections. The consumer shall provide the smvey results to the City or
its authorized representatives.
§3-133   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; WHERE
PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   A.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer's water
supply system when in the judgment of the City or its authorized representative
a health. plumbing, pollution, or system hazard exists.
   B.   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of the Municipal Water Department or the City
Council, the nature and extent of activities on the premises, or the materials
used in connection with the activities, or materials stored on the premises,
would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health should a cross
connection occur, even though such cross connection may not exist at the time
the backflow prevention device is required to be installed. This includes, but
is not limited to, the following situations:
      1.   The premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is acceptable to the City or its authorized
representatives, including the Nebraska Department of Health.
      2.   The premises having internal cross connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises which, due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion.
      6.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry in the public water supply system, or where a cross connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters.
      7.   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   C.   The types of facilities which fall into one or more of the categories
or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device may be required by the City or its authorized
representatives, including/or the Nebraska Department of Health to protect the
public water supply and which must be installed at these facilities unless all
hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected
by other methods to the satisfaction of the City or its authorized
representatives, including/or the Nebraska Department of Health or all types of
facilities which are shown in TITLE 179, NEBRASKA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, CHAPTER
TWO--REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS, 008--OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS, which are incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set forth.
      1.   Agricultural chemical facilities
      2.   Auxiliary water systems, wells
      3.   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems
      4.   Bulk water loading facilities
      5.   Car washes, automobile seivicing facilities
      6.   Chill water systems
      7.   Feedlots
      8.   Fire protection systems
      9.   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites
      10.   Irrigation and lawn sprinkler systems
      11.   Laundries and diy cleaning
      12.   Petroleum processing or storage plants
      13.   Beauty salons
      14.   Schools
      15.   Sewage pumping stations
      16.   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross connections
§3-134   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; TYPE OF
PROTECTION REQUIRED.
The type of protection required by sections
3-129 through
3-140 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists, as follows:
   1.   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the potable
water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a severe
health hazard.
   2.   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
health hazard.
   3.   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances what could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
§3-135   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   A.   Any backflow prevention device required by sections
3-129 through
3-140 shall be of a model or construction approved by the City or its
authorized representative and the Nebraska Department of Health.
      1.   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at twice the diameter of
the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the vessel, but in no
case less than one (1") inch.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principal backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the Nebraska Department of Health, unless the
device were installed at the time sections
3-129 through
3-140 was passed and complies with required inspection and maintenance.
      3.   Permitted Backflow Assemblies, Devices, and Methods:
      a.   Atmospheric Vacuum Breaker: Install in upright position with no
valves downstream. Install at a minimum of six inches (6") or listed distance
above all downstream piping and flood level rim of receptor.
      b.   Pressure Vacuum Breaker Assembly: Install in upright position at a
minimum of twelve inches (12") above all downstream piping and flood level rim
of receptor. This device may have valves downstream and may discharge water.
§3-136   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
INSTALLATION.
   A.   Backflow prevention devices required by sections
3-129 through
3-140 shall be installed at a location in a manner approved by the City or its
authorized agent. All devices shall be installed at the expense of the
consumer, unless the City or its authorized representative agrees otherwise.
   B.   Backtlow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer's side of the water meter (if one is installed), or
the corporation stop, as close to the meter or corporation stop as is
reasonably practical, and prior to any other connection.
   C.   Backtlow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, protected from freezing, and where no part of the
device will be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid. All devices shall
be installed according to manufacturer's recommendations.
§3-137   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
TESTING.
Backflow and backsiphonage prevention devices designed to be tested shall be
tested by a certified Grade VI Water Operator for proper operation annually or
when necessary in the opinion of the City or its authorized representative.
Actual testing shall be at the expense of the consumer, unless the City or its
authorized representative agrees otherwise. Any required maintenance or repairs
shall be at the expense of the consumer and subject to the approval of the City
or its authorized representatives. If testing shall require entry into the
premises, the City or its authorized representative shall give notice setting
forth a proposed date and time at least ten (10) working days in advance by
first class mail, return receipt requested. If the consumer cannot make the
premises available for inspection on that date and time, the consumer shall
contact the City or its authorized representative to arrange another date and
time. (Amended by Ord No. 450, 12/14/00)
§3-138   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE; AUTHORITY.
The City and its authorized representatives shall have the authority to issue
any order consistent with the provisions of sections
3-129 through
3-140 in order to protect the public health and safety. Any order of the City
or its authorized representatives shall be in writing and shall clearly state
the nature of the order, compliance requirements, and set a reasonable date by
which compliance must be met. All orders will be made by the consumer by first
class mail, return receipt requested.
§3-139   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
APPEALS.
In the event that it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of sections
3-129 through
3-140 has been wrongfully interpreted by the authorized representative; that
the time allowed for compliance with any order of the authorized representative
is too short in duration; or that conditions peculiar to a particular premises
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
this Code, the owner may file a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk
within ten (10) days after the decision or order of the City or its authorized
representatives has been made. The Governing Body shall hear all appeals and
shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify its decision or
order or the decision or order of the authorized representatives. Such a
decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved party
may have at law or equity. Appeals shall be in writing and shall state the
reason for the appeal and shall be filed with the City Clerk.
§3-140   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   A.   The City or its authorized representatives shall deny or discontinue
the water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow
prevention device required by sections
3-129 through 3-140 is not installed, tested, and maintained in a manner
acceptable to the City or its authorized representatives, or if it is found
that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
is in compliance with sections
3-129 through 3-140 to the satisfaction of the City or its authorized
representative.
   C.   Any person or consumer who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the sections of this ordinance shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense and the costs of prosecution. New
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours
of such failure to comply.
§3-141   WATER WELLS; DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS, AND OTHER UNDERGROUND
FACILITIES OR CONTAMINATING FACILITIES WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
From and after the effective date of sections 3-141 through
3-144, it shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity
to drill and/or operate any of the following facilities within the corporate
limits of the City of Newman Grove, without first having obtained the proper
permit from the Governing Body of the City: Potable water well; Any other well;
Sewage lagoon; Absorption or disposal field for water; Cesspool; Dumping
grounds; Feedlot; Livestock pasture or corral; Chemical product storage
facility; Petroleum product storage facility; Pit toilet; Sanitary landfill;
Septic tank; Sewage treatment plant; Sewage wet well. (Ord. No. 447, 10/12/00)
§3-142   WATER WELLS; PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in section
3-141, the owner of property on which the proposed facility is to be located,
must make application on the proper form provided by the Governing Body of the
City. Such application must be presented to the City Council at any regular or
special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to
drill or operate any of the above described facilities, then the City Council
must approve or deny said permit. (Ord. No. 447, 10/12/00)
§3-143   WATER WELLS; DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN
DESIGNATED DISTANCE FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES; PROHIBITED.
Under no circumstances shall the City Council approve any permit to drill or
operate any of the below described facility within the indicated number of feet
from the City of Newman Grove municipal water wells:
Potable water well                     within 1,000 feet
Any other well                         within 1,000 feet
Sewage lagoon                          within 1,000 feet
Absorption or disposal field for water within 500 feet
Cesspool                               within 500 feet
Dumping grounds                        within 500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              within 500 feet
Livestock pasture or corral            within 500 feet
Chemical product storage facility      within 500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility     within 500 feet
Pit toilet                             within 500 feet
Sanitary landfill                      within 500 feet
Septic tank                            within 500 feet
Sewage treatment plant                 within 500 feet
Sewage wet well                        within 500 feet
 
(Ord. No. 447, 10/12/00)
§3-144   WATER WELLS; PENALTIES AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
In the event any of the above described facilities are installed or operated
without first having obtained a permit from the City and/or within a designated
number of feet from the municipal water supply, then such facilities shall be
deemed a nuisance and the governing board shall abate such facility as a public
nuisance pursuant to
Chapter 4, Article 3 of the Newman Grove Municipal Code. In addition thereto,
any person violating any of the terms of sections
3-141 through 3-144 is hereby determined to be guilty of a Class III
Misdemeanor as the same is defined by Nebraska statute. The penalty for such
violation shall be that as defined by Nebraska Law for the violation of a Class
III Misdemeanor. (Ord. No. 447, 10/12/00)
§3-145   ADOPTION OF DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN.
The city shall address any short-term water shortage problems through a series
of stages based on conditions of supply and demand with accompanying triggers,
goals, and actions. Each stage is more stringent in water use than the previous
stage since there will be greater deterioration in water supply conditions. The
Mayor is hereby authorized to implement the appropriate conservation measures
as set forth in this section, when any of the conditions have been reached
which would qualify for any of the specific stages. The Mayor is given
discretion to declare each particular stage as deemed appropriate by the Mayor
by reviewing the severity of the trigger conditions and other additional
information, and is further authorized to implement conservation measures
within the guidelines provided for each particular stage.
   A.   Stage one: water watch.
      1.   This stage is triggered by any one of the following conditions:
         a.   Ground water levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         b.   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
         c.   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
      2.   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten awareness of the
public of the water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the system.
      3.   Management actions.
         a.   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
         b.   The city will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing and street cleaning.
      4.   Regulation actions. The public will be informed through the local
media of the water watch and be asked to voluntarily reduce outdoor water use
and to efficiently use water for indoor purposes, for example, washing full
loads of clothing and/or dishes, Jim iting the length and frequency of showers,
checking for water leaks and dripping of faucets, to prevent any unnecessary
use of water.
   B.   Stage two: water warning.
      1.   This stage is triggered by any one of the following conditions:
         a.   Ground water levels have fallen ten feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         b.   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
         c.   Plant operations are at 80% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
         d.   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
      2.   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20% and
to reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
      3.   Management actions.
         a.   Water supply will be monitored daily.
         b.   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         c.   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         d.   City will curtail its water usage, including watering of city
grounds and washing of vehicles.
      4.   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions under
Stage One, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the Mayor:
         a.   An odd/even lawn watering system will be imposed on City
residents. Residents with odd-numbered houses will water on odd days, even-
numbered houses, on even days.
         b.   Outdoor water use, including lawn watering and car washing will
be restricted to before 10:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m.
         c.   Refilling of swimming pools will be limited to one day a week
after sunset.
         d.   Excess water use charges for usage of water over the amount used
in the winter will be imposed at a rate twice the normal rate for water usage.
         e.   Waste of water will be prohibited.
   C.   Stage three: water emergency.
      1.   This stage is triggered by any one of the following conditions:
         a.   Ground water levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels.
         b.   System pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch.
         c.   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of the
well screens.
         d.   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more that three
consecutive days.
         e.   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
      2.   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50% and
to reduce overall consumption by 25%.
      3.   Education actions.
         a.   The city will make news releases to local media describing
current conditions and indicate the water supply outlook for the city.
         b.   The city will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the emergency,
the status of the water supply and further actions which need to be taken.
      3.   Management actions.
         a.   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
         b.   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
         c.   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
         d.   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
         e.   City will seek additional emergency supplies from other users,
the state or federal government.
      4.   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions available
under Stage Two, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Mayor:
         a.   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses which
require outdoor water use to operate.
         b.   Waste of water will be prohibited.
      5.   Enforcement. In the event that any water consumer fails to comply
with the regulatory action taken by the city, then the Mayor may direct the
immediate discontinuation of water service to the location which is not in
compliance with the restrictions imposed. Water service may be resumed upon the
Mayor being provided adequate evidence to show that compliance has been
instituted and that compliance will continue under the restrictions imposed.
(Ord. No. 476, 10/10/06)
Article 2. Sewer Department
§3-201   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through the Sewer
Director (hereinafter Director). The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the operation, maintenance and replacement of the
Municipal Sewer System may establish and revise the charges, if necessary, to
accomplish the following:
   1.   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement costs among users and user classes;
   2.   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation, maintenance
and replacement;
   3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation, maintenance and replacement attributable to that class for the next
year and adjust the rates accordingly.
The revenue from the said user charge system based on actual use shall be known
as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Director shall have the direct management
and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties
of his office. He shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the
supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-149, 17-925.01 RS Neb.)
§3-202   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITION OF TERMS.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Article shall be as follows:
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The term "Approving Authority" shall mean the Governing
Body of the Municipality; or its duly authorized deputy, agent or
representative, and the Governing Body shall have complete control of the
Sanitary Sewer System.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The term "Biochemical Oxygen Demand" (BOD) shall
mean and include the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation
of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at
twenty (20) degrees C.o expressed in parts per million by weight. degrees C.,
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The term "Building Drain" and "House Drain "shall
mean and include that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
(5) feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The terms "Building Sewer" and "House Sewer" shall
mean and include that part of a house or building drainage system extending
from the house or building drain to its connection with the main sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The term "Building Sewer" shall mean the extension from the
building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   CHLORlNE REQUIREMENT. The term "Chlorine Requirement" shall mean the amount
of chlorine, in parts per million by weight, which must be added to sewage to
produce a specified residual chlorine content, or to meet the requirements of
some other objective, in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard
Methods."
   COMBINED SEWER. The term "Combined Sewer" shall mean a sewer receiving both
surface runoff and sewage.
   DIRECTOR. The term Director shall mean the Sewer Director.
   EASEMENT. The term "Easement" shall mean an acquired legal right for the
specific use of land owned by others.
   GARBAGE. The term "Garbage" shall mean solid wastes from the domestic and
commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling,
storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The term "Industrial Wastes" shall mean the liquid wastes
from industrial manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. The term "Local Ventilating Pipe" shall mean and
include any pipe through which foul air is removed from a room or fixture.
   MAY. The term "May" is permissive; the term "Shall" is mandatory.
   MUNICIPALITY. The term "Municipality" shall mean the City of Newman Grove,
Nebraska.
   NATURAL OUTLET. The term "Natural Outlet" shall mean any outlet into a
watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. The term "Normal Sewage" shall mean sewage not exceeding
maximum tolerance of contamination of 300 milligrams per liter BOD or 350
milligrams per liter of Suspended Solids.
   PARTS PER MILLION. The term "Parts Per Million" shall mean a weight-to-
weight ratio; the parts-per million value multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall
be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   PERSON. The term "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, or group.
   pH. The term "pH" shall mean the logarithm of the reciprocal of the
hydrogen-ion concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions,
in grams, per liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of
7 and a hydrogen-ion concentration of 10 7 .
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. The term "Plumbing Fixtures" shall mean and include
receptacles intended to receive and discharge water liquid or water-carried
wastes into the sewer system with which they are connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. The term "Properly Shredded" shall mean and include
shredding to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle larger
than one half inch in diameter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The term "Properly Shredded Garbage" shall mean
the wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been
shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
than one half (1/2") inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The term "Public Sewer" shall mean a sewer in which all owners
of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT. The term "replacement" shall mean expenditures for obtaining
and installing equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary
during the service life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. The term "Sanitary Sewer" shall mean and include a sewer
which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The term "Service Charge" shall mean the basic assessment
levied on all users of the public sewer system whose waste does not exceed in
strength the concentration values established as representative of normal
sewage.
   SEWAGE. The term "Sewage" shall mean and include a combination of the water-
carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions, and
industrial establishments together with such ground, surface, and storm waters
as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. The term "Sewage Treatment Plant" shall mean any
arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
   SEWER. The term "Sewer" shall mean a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SYSTEM. The term "Sewer System" shall mean and include all facilities
for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage.
   SEWERAGE. The term "Sewerage" shall mean the system of sewers and
appurtenances for the collection, transportation and pumping of sewage and
industrial wastes.
   SHALL. The term "Shall" is mandatory; the term "May" is permissive.
   SLUG. The term "Slug" shall mean any discharge of water, sewage, or
industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity
of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes
more than five (5) times the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration or
flows during normal operation.
   SOIL PIPE. The term "Soil Pipe" shall mean and include any pipe which
conveys the discharge of water closets with or without the discharge from other
fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STANDARD METHODS. The term "Standard Methods" shall mean the examination and
analytical procedures set forth in the most recent editions of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage, and Industrial Waste," published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN. The term "Storm Drain" (sometimes termed "Storm Sewer") shall
mean a drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or
unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The term "Superintendent" shall mean the Utilities
Superintendent of the City of Newman Grove, or his authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SURCHARGE. The term "Surcharge" shall mean the assessment in addition to the
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established as representative of normal
sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The term "Suspended Solids" shall mean and include solids
that either float on the surface of. or are in suspension in water, sewage, or
other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. The term "Trap" shall mean and include a fitting or device so
constructed as to prevent the passage of air or gas through a pipe without
materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The term "Trap Seal" shall mean and include the vertical distance
between the crown weir and the dip of the trap.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. The term "Unpolluted Waters" is water of quality equal to
or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause
violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by
discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VENT PIPE. The term "Vent Pipe" shall mean and include any pipe provided to
ventilate a house or building drainage system and to prevent trap siphonage and
back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. The term "Waste Pipe" shall mean and include any pipe which
receives the discharge of any fixture, except water closets, and conveys the
same to the house drain, soil pipe, or waste stack.
   WASTEWATER. The term "Wastewater" shall mean the spent water of a community.
From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from resi-dences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The term "Wastewater Facilities" shall mean the
structures, equipment, and processes required to collect, carry away, and treat
domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The term "Wastewater Treatment Works" shall mean
an arrangement of devices and structure for treating wastewater, industrial
wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with "Waste Treatment Plant"
or "Wastewater Treatment Plant" or "Water Pollution Control Plant."
   WATERCOURSE. The term "Watercourse" shall mean a natural or artificial
channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
§3-203   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
Any person wishing to connect with the Sewer System shall make an application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk may require any applicant to make a
service deposit in such amount as he deems necessary subject to the review of
the Governing Body. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building
except upon the written order of the Clerk or Director. The Department shall
not supply sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without
special permission from the Governing Body; Provided, that the entire cost of
pipe and other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate the Municipality to provide sewer service
to non-residents. (Ref. 17-149, 18-503 RS Neb.)
§3-204   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONTRACT.
The Municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
Municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when,
according to law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the Municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Director, or his agent, may
cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or premise of such
violation. No further connection for sewer service to said building or premise
shall again be made save or except by order of the Director or his agent. (Ref.
17-901, 17-902, 18-503 RS Neb.)
§3-205   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to change
from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Director who shall cause the sewer service to be shut
off from the said premise. If the customer should fail to give notice, he shall
be charged for that period of time until the official in charge of sewers is
otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-901, 17-902, 18-503 RS Neb.)
§3-206   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; RATE SETTING.
Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged a rate based on
water usage for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by the Governing
Body. The rates shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk available
for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-509 RS Neb.)
§3-207   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
The Governing Body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
the customers of the Sewer Department. All such fees shall be on file for
public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. The Municipal Clerk
shall have the duty of collecting the rental fees of the customers of the Sewer
Department. Sewer fees shall be due and payable in advance by or before the
first (1st) day of May. If said fees are not paid by or before the first (1st)
day of May, they may be deemed delinquent and subject to the provisions of
Article 3 herein. If a customer shall for any reason order the service
discontinued or shall vacate the premise, the amount due under the terms of
this Article, together with any rental fees and charges in arrears, shall be
considered as a delinquent sewer rental which is hereby declared to be a lien
upon the premise or real estate for which or from which the sewer was used or
supplied, and upon the refusal of the customer to pay the said delinquent sewer
rental, it shall be collected by being placed upon the assessment roll and tax
books for collection.
§3-208   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; USER CHARGE REVIEW.
The Governing Body shall review, at least annually, the user charge system and
revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   1.   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement costs among users and user classes;
   2.   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation, maintenance
and replacement;
   3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation, maintenance and replacement attributable to that class for the next
year and adjust the rates accordingly.
§3-209   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; USER NOTIFICATION.
Each user will be notified, at least annually, with a regular bill, of the rate
and that portion of the user charges ad valorem taxes which are attributable to
wastewater treatment.
§3-210   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER MAINTENANCE FUND.
The operation, maintenance and replacement portion of the total sewer user
charges shall be deposited in a non-lapsing Sewer Maintenance Fund, or set of
funds, and the revenues so deposited will be used only for the purposes of
defraying the operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the treatment
works. Funds transferred from other revenue sources to meet temporary shortages
in the operation, maintenance and replacement accounts shall be refunded
following an appropriate adjustment in the user charges for operation,
maintenance and replacement. The Sewer Maintenance Fund will have a minimum of
two (2) primary accounts:
   1.   An operation, maintenance and replacement account with provision for
carry-over of the fiscal year end balance to meet the overall operation,
maintenance and replacement costs in the subsequent fiscal year;
   2.   A non-lapsing sinking fund for replacement costs which accrues funds
through deposits made at least annually from operation, maintenance and
replacement use charge revenues. The deposits shall provide adequate revenues
to meet the "replacement" needs of the treatment works over its service life
and shall be used for no other purpose. For purposes of maintaining said fund
on a perpetual basis, the Municipality shall budget a sum of money not less
than twenty (20%) per cent of its annual projected operation and maintenance
budget for the sewer treatment works. Fiscal year-end balances in the non-
lapsing sinking fund will be carried over to the same fund in the subsequent
year.
§3-211   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; CLASSIFICATION.
The Governing Body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers of
the Municipal Sewer Department; Provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. The classification must be approved by the Environmental Protection
Agency, relative to the user charge grant condition. (Ref. 17-925.02 RS Neb.)
§3-212   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable at the same time and in the same
manner as water bills are due and payable. All penalties and procedures
concerning delinquent accounts with the Municipal Water Department shall also
be applicable to delinquent accounts with the Municipal Sewer Department.
§3-213   SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
§3-214   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Municipality or within one (1) mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said Municipality, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
§3-215   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Municipality, or within one (1) mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said Municipality, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this Article.
§3-216   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS
PROHIBITED.
Except as hereinafter provided. it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
§3-217   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the Municipality and abutting on
any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the Municipality, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this Article within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so; Provided, that said public sewer is within
one hundred (100') feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
§3-218   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; WHEN APPLICABLE.
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions
of Section
3-217, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this Article.
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, as provided in Section
3-217, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within sixty (60)
days in compliance with this Article, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and
similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and
filled with suitable material.
§3-219   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Director. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
Municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the Director.
A permit and inspection fee of such an amount as set by the Governing Body
shall be paid to the Municipality at the time the application is filed.
§3-220   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until
the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Director. He shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the Director when the work is ready for
final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours of the receipt of notice
by the Director.
§3-221   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; SPECIFICATIONS.
The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health of the
State of Nebraska. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot
is less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
§3-222   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; MAINTENANCE.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the Municipality.
§3-223   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
No statement contained in Sections
3-218 thru
3-222 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may
be imposed by the Health Officer.
§3-224   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Director.
§3-225   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION, FEE.
There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: (a) for residential
and commercial service, and (b) for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the Municipality. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Director. A permit and
inspection fee of such an amount as set by the Governing Body shall be paid to
the Municipality at the time the application is filed.
§3-226   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXPENSE.
All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
Municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
§3-227   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
The customer, upon approval of his application for sewer service, shall pay to
the Municipal Clerk a tap fee which compensates the Municipality for the
expense of processing his application and tapping the sewer main. The Director,
in his discretion, may direct the customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap
the main. The customer shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring
the materials required as well as the services of a licensed plumber and shall
pay all other costs of installation.
§3-228   MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM; REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which is
within the Municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains to repair
or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is broken,
clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner's
duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those portions
upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or easements
up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by certified mail,
directed to the last-known address of such owner or the agent of such owner,
directing the repair or replacement of such connection line. If within thirty
(30) days of mailing such notice the property owner fails or neglects to cause
such repairs or replacements to be made, the Director may cause such work to be
done and assess the cost upon the property served by such connection. (Ref. 18-
1748 RS Neb.)
§3-229   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; SINGLE PREMISE.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building;
except where one (1) building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one (1) building sewer, but the Municipality does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned.
§3-230   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and test by the Director, to meet all requirements of
this Article.
§3-231   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CONSTRUCTION CODES.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and
the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
Municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in the BOCA National Building Codes
shall apply.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the Municipality, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the BOCA National Building Codes. All such connections shall
be made gastight and watertight, and verified by proper testing. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Director
before installation.
§3-232   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; Provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
§3-233   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; INSPECTIONS.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Director when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the Director or
his representative.
§3-234   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXCAVATIONS.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Municipality.
§3-235   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the Director shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two (2) inspections by the Director. The first (1st) inspection
shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before the pipe is
covered. The second (2nd) inspection shall be made after the dirt work is
completed and the service restored. It is the customer's responsibility to
notify the Director at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Director; Provided, that the said rules, regulations, and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the Governing Body.
§3-236   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING
WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including interior and
exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial waters into any sanitary sewer.
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Director. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process water may be discharged, on approval of the Director, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer, or natural outlet. The contributor of any identifiable
discharge of polluted water to the sanitary sewer system shall be held
responsible for reimbursing the Municipality for such costs. The costs shall be
determined by the Director with the approval of the Governing Body.
§3-237   HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
   3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Any waters or wastes having:
      a)   a five (5) day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight or,
      b)   containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids, or
      c)   having an average daily flow greater than two (2%) per cent of the
average sewage flow of the Municipality, or
      d)   a chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the Municipality's consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Director.
Where necessary in the opinion of the Director. the owner shall provide, at his
expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      a)   reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, or
      b)   reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or
      c)   control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes, or
      d)   reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Director and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approvals are obtained in writing.
§3-238   HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS DETERMINED
BY DIRECTOR.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Director that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the Director will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
   1   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
(150°) degrees Farenheit (65° degrees C).
   2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32°)
degrees and one hundred fifty (150°) degrees F (O and 65° C).
   3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Director.
   4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   5.   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Director for such materials.
   6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Director as necessary, after treatment of the composite
sewage, to meet the requirements of State, Federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Director in compliance with applicable
State or Federal regulations.
   8.   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of [9.5].
   9.   Materials which exert or cause:
      a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate).
      b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
   10.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
§3-239   DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Section
3-238, and which in the judgment of the Director, may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the Director
may:
   1.   Reject the wastes,
   2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers,
   3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
   4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
Section
3-245.
If the Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Director, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
§3-240   GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Director and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Director. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by
owner(s)' personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal
firms.
§3-241   PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
§3-242   CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATION WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANC:E
When required by the Director, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Director. The manhole
shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him
so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
§3-243   CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATION METHOD.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Article, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty-four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from twenty-four (24) hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
§3-244   SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
§3-245   HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE
FEE SURCHARGE.
No statement contained in this Article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
§3-246   COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
The Director and other duly authorized employees of the Municipality bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing system in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The
Director or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any
processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or
other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of disharge to the sewers or wateiways or facilities for waste
treatnent.
§3-247   COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
Section
3-246 above, the Director or duly authorized employees of the Municipality
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company.
§3-248   COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; EASEMENTS.
The Director and other duly authorized employees of the Municipality bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the Municipality holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
§3-249   VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article except Section
3-244 shall be served by the Municipality with writtten notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall become liable
to the Municipality for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
Municipality by reason of such violation.
§3-250   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MUNICIPAL POWERS.
The Municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user charges,
industrial cost recovey charge, and sewer use regulations on all existing or
future users of the system whether located inside or outside the Municipal
limits.
§3-251   SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
The invalidity of any Section, clause, sentence. or provision of this Article
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Article which can be
given effect without such invalid part or parts.
§3-252   PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to attach any air heat pump, air
conditioner, or similar appliance or device to the sanitary sewer system, the
storm sewer system, or the water system of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska,
or to introduce any water or other liquid coolant used in the operation of such
water to air heat pump, air conditioner, or any similar device or appliance,
into the sanitary sewer system or the storm sewer system of the City of Newman
Grove, Nebraska.
§3-253   PENAL PROVISION; VIOLATION.
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided in
Section
3-249, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
violation. Each twenty-four (24) hour period in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
Article 3. Utilities Generally
§3-301   UTILITIES GENERALLY; BILLING.
Utility bills shall be a Joint bill for all utility services supplied by the
Municipality. Customers of the Municipal Utilities shall pay their respective
utility bills in advance by or before May first of each year.
Utility bills shall be deemed delinquent if not paid by May first (1st) of each
year. If not paid within sixty (60) days of May first (1st) of each year. The
Directors of the respective departments or the Governing Body may pursue any
legal remedies against the delinquent customer.
All delinquent utility bills shall include a ten (10%) per annum late charge.
The owner of the premises will in all cases be held primarily responsible for
all utility service charges accruing upon such premises and will be required to
pay for all such utility service charges accruing at such owner's premises.
Such utility service charges will include, but not be limited to, late charges
upon such delinquent utility bills.
In the event that any Municipal utility has been discontinued or shutoff under
the procedures set forth in this Article, then the Governing Body may require
the customer to pay the reconnect fee set by the Governing Body and on file at
the Municipal Clerk's office.
§3-302   UTILITIES GENERALLY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
The Municipality shall have the right to discontinue services and remove its
properties if the charges for such services are not paid within twenty (20)
days after the date that the same becomes delinquent. Before any termination,
the Department of Utilities shall first give notice by first class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven (7)
days, weekends and holidays excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously
been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the Department of
Social Services, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such
proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Social Services.
The notice shall contain the following information:
   1.   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
   2.   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the Department
regarding payment of the bill;
   3.   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
   4.   The name, address, and telephone number of the employee or department
to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
   5.   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date, to
request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
   6.   A statement that the Department may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
   7.   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the Department of Utilities within five (5) days of
receiving notice under this Section and will prevent the disconnection of the
Department's services for a period of thirty (30) days from such filing. Only
one (1) postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this subsection
for each incidence of non-payment of any due account;
   8.   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for restoration
of service;
   9.   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
Department for an installment payment plan;
   10.   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
   11.   Any additional information not inconsistent with this Section which
has received prior approval from the Governing Body.
A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of service by
notifying the utility with a written statement that sets forth the reasons for
the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made by the
subscriber, a conference shall be held before the utility may discontinue
seivices.
The procedures adopted by the Governing Body for resolving utility bills, three
(3) copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk, are
hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and are
made a part hereof as though set out in full.
This Section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of services
made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or to
protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public. (Ref. 19-2702 et seq. RS Neb.)
§3-303   UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION SERVICES; PENALTY.
The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages against any person who
commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts (a) bypassing, (b)
tampering, or (c) unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
Municipal Utility. A Municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this Section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
In any civil action brought pursuant to this Section, the Municipality shall be
entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
   A.   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or loss
is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
   B.   Liquidated damages of seven hundred fifty ($750.00) dollars if the
amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
In addition to damage or loss under subdivision A or B of this section the
Municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of section 25-
1801 Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska 1943.
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
if the tenant or occupant (a) had access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist and (b) was responsible or partially responsible for
payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person
for utility services to the premises.
There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any premises where
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to exist caused or had
knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering if the
customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering was proven to
exist.
The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be supplemental and
additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the remedies provided in
this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other civil or
criminal statutory or common law remedies. (Ref. 86-331.01 than 86-331.04 RS
Neb.)
§3-303.01   UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING,
UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (1)   Any person who connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without
the knowledge and consent of the Municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter provided for measuring or registering the
amount or quantity passing through it, and any person who knowingly uses or
knowingly permits the use of water obtained in the above-mentioned unauthorized
ways, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (2)   Any person who willfully injures, alters, or by any instrument,
device, or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of
the Municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (3)   When water service has been disconnected pursuant to sections 70-1601
to 70-1615 RS Neb., or section
3-302 of this Code, any person who reconnects such service without the
knowledge and consent of the Municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (4)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, or obstruction of a meter, as
provided in this section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt
of the person in possession of the premises where such connection,
reconnection, injury, alteration, or obstruction is proved to exist. (Ref. 86-
329 through 86-331 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 437, 5/14/98)
§3-304   UTILITIES GENERALLY; LIEN.
In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for utilities service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for
which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or
cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are sixty (60) days or more delinquent in the
payment of the utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to
report to the Governing Body a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities
service together with a description of the premises served. The report shall be
examined, and if approved by the Governing Body, shall be certified by the
Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-538, 17-925.01, 18-503 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Fire Department
§3-401   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the Municipal
Fire Chief and Firemen. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire Department may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed by State law, on
the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times in the
possession of the Municipal Treasurer. (Ref. 17-147, 17-718, 17-953 RS Neb.)
§3-402   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his duty to
inform the Governing Body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other
apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the Governing
Body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the
said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall
be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Governing Body at the regular
meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the Governing Body
of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements recommended
by him.
§3-403   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than twenty-five (25) members for each
Fire Department Company subject to the review and approval of the Governing
Body. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner. Said members shall be
considered to be employees of the Municipality for the purpose of providing
them with workmen's compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be
entitled to a term life insurance policy in the amount of at least five
thousand ($5,000.00) dollars for death from any cause to age sixty-five (65)
and such policy shall, at the option of the individual fireman, be convertible
to a permanent form of life insurance at age sixty-five (65); Provided, that
the firemen covered are actively and faithfully performing the duties of their
position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be
decided by the Governing Body. The members may organize themselves in any way
they may decide, subject to the review of the Governing Body. They may hold
meetings and engage in social activities with the approval of the Governing
Body. The secretary shall upon request keep a record of all meetings and shall
make a report to the Governing Body of all meetings and activities of the Fire
Department. The Governing Body may, for services rendered, compensate or reward
any member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by resolution.
All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Governing Body. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of policemen and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the Municipal Code,
or the laws of the State of Nebraska.
Provided, however, Volunteer Firefighters and rescue squad members testifying
as a witness in connection with his or her officially assigned duties in that
capacity alone shall not be deemed employees of the State of Nebraska or of the
Municipality. (Ref. 33-139.01, 35-101 thru35-103, 35-108 RS Neb.)
§3-404   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; RECORDS.
The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of the
Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all fires,
and shall make a full report of such records to the Municipal Clerk during the
last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the cause,
origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct may have
been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he shall include the
information of whether such losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in
what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any reasonable
time.
§3-405   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRES.
It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the Municipality; and to
secure the obseivance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
§3-406   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; DISTANT FIRES.
Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body as rural equipment may
be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
§3-407   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
The firefighters of the Municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the Municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body.
§3-408   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during the
time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever
it shall become necessary to do so for the preseivation of such property from
fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining property. The
said officials may direct the Municipal firefighters to remove any building,
structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire, and
the official in charge of the fire fighting effort shall have the power to blow
up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or erection
during the progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the
same.
§3-409   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; HOSE TESTED.
All fire hose shall be pressure tested at least two (2) times each year.
§3-410   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; DRILLS.
The Municipal Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills at least six
(6) times per year at such times as the members of the Fire Department shall
decide.
§3-411   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the Governing
Body, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers, members,
or some other official as often as may be necessary, all buildings, premises
and public thoroughfares, except the interiors of private dwellings, for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to
create a fire hazard. The inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of
flammable liquids, combustibles, and explosives; electric wiring and heating;
and the means and adequacy of exits, in case of fire in schools, churches,
hotels, halls, theatres, factories, hospitals, and all other buildings in which
numbers of persons congregate from time to time for any purpose whether
publicly or privately owned; the design. construction, location, installation,
and operation of equipment for storing, handling, and utilizing of liquefied
petroleum gases, specifying the odorization of said gases and the degree
thereof: and chemicals, prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films. or any other
hazardous material that may now or hereafter exist. (Ref. 81-512 RS Neb.)
§3-412   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Upon the finding that the Municipal Code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of the
premise where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the said premise. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an
order upon the owner, such order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy
to the owner's last known post office address if the said owner is absent from
the jurisdiction. Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the
owner, occupant, or manager of the premise or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five (5) days after such order by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his agent, appeal the order with the Governing Body requesting a
review and it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to hear the same within
not less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from the time when the
request was filed in writing with the Municipal Clerk. The Governing Body shall
then affirm, modify, or rescind the said order as safety and justice may
require and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which
the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The said order shall be
modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists
and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in
complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so
made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant, or manager
making the appeal.
§3-413   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; POWER OF ARREST.
The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the fire fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself in a
noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally vested with
the usual powers and authority of Municipal Policemen to command all persons to
assist them in the performance of their duties.
§3-414   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE INVESTIGATION.
It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the Municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
fifty ($50.00) dollars. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such
officers shall especially make an investigation and report as to whether such
fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation
shall be begun within two (2) days of the occurrence of such fire and the State
Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation
whenever he deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the
investigation of fires occurring within the Municipality shall immediately
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one (1) week of the occurrence
of the fire, furnish him with a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire, and such further information as he may call
for. (Ref. 81-506 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Rescue Unit
§3-501   RESCUE UNIT; OPERATION.
The Rescue Unit shall be operated through the Fire Department, and it shall be
staffed by volunteers from the Fire Department. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than members of the Fire Department to operate the Rescue Unit.
§3-502   RESCUE UNIT; FUNDING.
The Rescue Unit Fund shall be separate from any of the Municipality's funds,
and it shall be managed by members of the Fire Department. (Amended by Ord. No.
555, 5/12/22)
§3-503   RESCUE UNIT; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Fire Department shall have the power to pass such rules and regulations as
needed in order to facilitate efficient operation of the Rescue Unit. All
action taken on behalf of the Rescue Squad shall be under the control and
supervision of the Governing Body.
Article 6. Civil Defense
§3-601   CIVIL DEFENSE; GENERALLY.
There is hereby created a Newman Grove Civil Defense Organization, to be headed
by a Municipal Civil Defense Director to be appointed by the Governing Body by
resolution. Such organization shall cooperate with, and enter into necessary
contracts and agreements with the Madison County Civil Defense Agency, and
shall have such duties and responsibilities as are set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat.
Sections 81-829.31 through 81-829.74 (Reissue 1981), within the territorial
limits of the Municipality. The Newman Grove Civil Defense Organization and the
Governing Body shall develop and adopt a Civil Preparedness Code to set forth
guidelines and procedures to be followed in event of an emergency. (Ref. 81-
829.31 thru 81-829.74 RS Neb.)
Article 7. Police Department
§3-701   POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular policemen as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books, belonging to the department. He shall devote his whole time to the
municipal affairs, interests of the Municipality, and to the preservation of
peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The Department shall execute and
enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the Municipality. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special policemen
shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the Municipality, and shall
see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against
any person or persons for violation of the same.
§3-702   POLICE DEPARTMENT; RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a bond
in the amount of two thousand ($2,000.00) dollars, payable to the City, has
been filed with the Municipal Clerk by the individual appointed, or a blanket
surety bond arranged and paid for by the Governing Body and bonding all such
officers of the Governing Body has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to
the provisions of
Chapter 11, Article 1, Nebraska Revised Statutes. (Ref. 81-1444 RS Neb.)
§3-703   POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY;
NOTICE AND HEARING; DETERMINATION.
   (1)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
   (2)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified by of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the Municipal
Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council
shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than twenty days
after the filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City Council shall
give the police officer written notice of the hearing not less than seven nor
more than fourteen days prior to the hearing.
   (3)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to: (a)
respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and documentary
evidence; (b) confront and crossexamine available adverse witnesses; and (c) to
be represented by counsel.
   (4)   Not later than thirty days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge.
The failure of the City Council to act within thirty days or the failure of a
majority of the elected Councilmembers to vote to reverse or modify the
disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge shall be
construed as a vote to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its
determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the
challenged disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge was
necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police
Department in the performance of its duties under the state statutes.
   (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or
disobedience of orders. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 423, 2/8/96)
Article 8. Parks
§3-801   MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Parks and other recreational
areas through the Board of Park and Pool Commissioners, The Governing Body, for
the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of
the Municipal Park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the Municipal Parks
and other recreational areas of the Municipality. The Board shall not enter
into a contract of any nature which involves an expenditure of funds, except
for ordinary operating expenses, unless the contract has been approved by
resolution of the majority of the members of the Governing Body prior to the
contractual agreement. (Ref. 17-948 through 17-952 RS Neb.)
§3-802   MUNICIPAL PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the Municipal Parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the Municipal Parks or other public grounds.
Article 9. Swimming Pool
§3-901   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Swimming Pool. The Governing
Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the Swimming Pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the Municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the Swimming Pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Board of
Park and Pool Commissioners shall manage the Swimming Pool. The Board shall
have the power and authority to hire and supervise the Swimming Pool Manager
and such employees as they may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the Swimming Pool as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision
and control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-948, 17-951, 17-952 RS Neb.)
§3-902   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; ADMISSION CHARGE.
The Board of Park and Pool Commissioners may, for the purpose of defraying the
expenses involved in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the
Swimming Pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of
the Municipal Swimming Pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of
the Municipal Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the
Municipal Swimming Pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for
classes of persons in a reasonable manner; Provided, that nothing herein shall
be construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed,
color, or national origin in the classification of persons for admission
charges. (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.)
§3-903   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; RENTALS.
The Board of Park and Pool Commissioners shall have the authority to rent the
Municipal Swimming Pool to such organizations and other persons as they may in
their discretion see fit, subject to the review of the Governing Body. The
Board shall prescribe rules and regulations for such rentals and shall require
an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the
rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Swimming
Pool. (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.)
§3-904   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Board of Park and Pool Commissioners shall have the power and authority to
enact bylaws, rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the
Swimming Pool and for the efficient management thereof. They may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations
subject to the review and supervision of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-949 RS
Neb.)
§3-905   SWIMMING POOL; MISDEMEANORS.
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to trespass. to enter by any
means or swim in the Newman Grove Swimming Pool during any time when said pool
is not open to the public, or to assist other persons to do such acts.
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, throw or otherwise place in the
Newman Grove Swimming Pool any foreign matter, refuse, trash, garbage, waste,
dead animals, concrete, or other dangerous, infectious or damaging matter,
objects or chemicals.
Article 10. Library
§3-1001   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Library through the Library
Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the Library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the Libraxy as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 51-201, 51-202, 51-211
RS Neb.)
§3-1002   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS.
The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any surplus,
damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the Libraxy. Records shall
be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books
so disposed of. (Ref. 51-207 RS Neb.)
§3-1003   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the Municipal Library for the presentation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure
to return a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected by
civil action in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said
assessments. (Ref. 51-205, 51-214 RS Neb.)
§3-1004   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS ISSUED.
The Librarian shall keep, or cause to be kept, a register of all books issued
and returned at the time they shall so be issued and returned. None of the
books shall be detained more than fourteen (14) days without being renewed. No
book may be renewed more than two (2) consecutive times by any person without
the special permission of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the
Municipal Library. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§3-1005   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the Library shall
forfeit and pay to the Library not less than the value of the book in addition
to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may assess. (Ref.
51-211 RS Neb.)
§3-1006   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOK LABELING.
It shall be the duty of the Librarian to label, or cause to be labeled, with a
printed or stamped label, proof of Municipal ownership on each book. (Ref. 51-
211 RS Neb.)
§3-1007   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOK REMOVAL.
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made by
the Library Board to take a book from the Library, without the consent of the
Librarian, or an authorized employee of the Library. Any person removing a book
from the Library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§3-1008   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; COST OF USE.
The Municipal Library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
Municipality. The Librarian may exclude from the use of the Library and reading
rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules
and regulations established for the government thereof. (Ref. 51-201, 51-212 RS
Neb.)
§3-1009   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; MONEY COLLECTED.
Any money collected by the Library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue. (Ref. 51-209 RS Neb.)
Chapter 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Article 1. General Provisions
§4-101   HEALTH; REGULATIONS.
For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
Municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§4-102   HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief
health officer of the Municipality. It shall be his duty to notify the
Governing Body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
Municipality and its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§4-103   HEALTH; STATE RULES.
The "Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health," Department of Health of
the State of Nebraska are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the Municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended. One (1) copy of each of the said pamphlets is filed at the office
of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902 RS Neb.)
§4-104   HEALTH; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
Municipality.
Article 2. Garbage Disposal
§4-201   GARBAGE; DEFINED.
The term "garbage" as used herein shall be defined to mean kitchen refuse,
decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may decompose and become
offensive to the public health.
§4-202   RUBBISH; DEFINED.
The terms "rubbish" or "trash" as used herein shall be defined as discarded
machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees, branches, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags, or any other litter or debris
that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the residents of the
Municipality.
§4-203   WASTE; DEFINED.
The term "waste" as herein defined shall mean cinders, ashes, plaster, brick,
stone, sawdust, or sand.
§4-204   GARBAGE; TRASH, AND WASTE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premise, or any other place in the Municipality, decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
Municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a thirty (30)
gallon capacity and as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be
unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or other public
grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or rubbish of
any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse to collect,
and all persons shall remove the same from their property within twenty-four
(24) hours after being notified to do so by the Municipal Police Chief who
shall represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste,
or refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of
time shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight
cover, or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening. All
persons shall have the contents of their garbage cans removed at least once a
week. (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§4-205   DEAD ANIMALS.
All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of such
animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two (2) hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the Municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the Municipality, nor within one (l) mile thereof, nor in
or above the course of ground water that is used for drinking purposes by the
Municipality or its inhabitants. (Ref. 17-114, 17-123, 17-207 RS Neb.)
§4-206   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; AUTHORITY.
The Governing Body for the City may provide for the collection and removal of
garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within its corporate roads, or
alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. The City
may require the owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of such lot or land to
remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and streets, roads, or
alleys. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.)
§4-207   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NOTICE; REMOVAL.
Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing
such notice, the City through its proper offices shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from
such lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.)
§4-208   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NUISANCE.
If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of such garbage or refuse upon any
lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health and
safety, the City shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed,
from such lot or land within forty-eight (48) hours after notice by personal
service or following receipt ofa certified letter in accordance with section
4-207 if such garbage or refuse has not been removed. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.)
§4-209   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; LIEN.
Whenever a city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed, from
any lot or land pursuant to this Article, it shall, after a hearing conducted
by the Governing Board, assess the cost of the removal against such lot or
land. (Ref. 18-1303 RS Neb.)
§4-210   GARBAGE HAULING AND DISPOSAL; SERVICE MANDATORY.
The Governing Body, in the interest of protecting the general health of the
Municipality, has deemed it necessary to enter into a contract for the hauling
and disposal of garbage, rubbish and waste from the Municipality. In order to
provide this service, it is necessary for the Municipality to make this service
mandatory on all businesses and all persons residing within the Municipal
limits. For the purposes of this section the terms "business" and "person"
shall mean any of the categories for rates set out in section
4-211 of this Article. As this service is deemed necessary to protect the
general health of the Municipality, proof of actual use of the service by the
customer shall not be a condition precedent to collecting the service charge
for garbage hauling and disposal. Service shall be provided at least once a
week. Rates for said service may be changed at any time by ordinance of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 19-2105, 19-2106 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 412, 10/14/93)
§4-211   GARBAGE HAULING AND DISPOSAL; RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
The rates for trash and garbage hauling services shall be as follows:
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE:
   One person household         $18.55 per month.
   Two person household      $19.80 per month.
   Three or more person household   $21.05 per month.
COMMERCIAL SERVICE:
   Business without dumpster      $24.05 per month
   Business with dumpster      $18.55 per month
                  plus $6.60 per yard per dumpster
                  times the number of pickups per week
                  ($100.00 maximum)
(Ord. No. 412, 10/14/93) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 413, 4/21/94; 422, 11/9/95; 443,
2/13/00; 472, 9/8/05; 482, 10/11/07; 552, 12/14/21; 554, 4/12/22; 569, 9/4/
2023)
§4-212   GARBAGE HAULING AND DISPOSAL; BILLING; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (1)   The City Clerk shall bill for said garbage hauling and disposal
service three (3) months in advance at the rates as determined according to the
schedule in section
4-211. Said amounts shall become due and payable quarterly, on or before the
twentieth (20th) day of May, the twentieth (20th) day of August, the twentieth
(20th) day of November, and the twentieth (20th) day of February of each year.
All of said fees shall be paid by each individual garbage customer to the City
Clerk. Customer payments for utility services, of whatever nature, may be
applied by the City, first, to the payment of the garbage disposal service
bill.
   (2)   Any such amounts not paid when due shall become a lien upon the
premises and real estate, upon or to which the said service was provided. Upon
the refusal of said customer to pay for said services, they shall be collected
either form the person, firm, lessee, corporation or occupant of said property
or the owner by appropriate legal action, or by a method designated by
resolution of the City Council. Said service charge shall become delinquent
from and after the date the owner of said premises or real estate is notified
in writing by the City of such delinquency and said person, firm, lessee,
corporation, occupant or owner is ninety (90) days in arrears of said service
charge.
   (3)   Any delinquent charges that remain unpaid for a period of ninety (90)
days after they become due, may be, by resolution of the City Council, added to
and consolidated with any unpaid water rental charges. Said charge shall be
paid and collected and such lien enforced in a like manner as unpaid water
rental charges, by the City Council examining and approving a report of such
delinquent charge or charges, showing the amount, describing the realty to
which the service was made available, and certifying such to the County Clerk
of said county. Said lien is to be collected in the same manner as other taxes
by the County Treasurer of said county. (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 412,
10/14/93) (Amended by Ord. No. 413, 4/21/94)
Article 3. Nuisances
§4-301   NUISANCES: GENERALLY DEFINED.
A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
   1.   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others,
   2.   Offends decency,
   3.   Is offensive to the senses,
   4.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage
any stream, public park, parkway, square, street, or highway in the
Municipality.
   5.   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§4-302   NUISANCES; SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   1.   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish,
or fowl.
   2.   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous.
   3.   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises.
   4.   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the Municipality.
   5.   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings and
offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any quantity;
Provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of the
Municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrifying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer.
   6.   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron, wire
metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery, broken
glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the same be
kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles.
   7.   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
maybreed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof.
   8.   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof.
   9.   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of
any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof.
   10.   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground.
   11.   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the Municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health.
   12.   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this Code.
(Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§4-303   NUISANCES; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee of real
estate in the Municipality to keep such real estate free of public nuisances.
Upon determination by the Board of Health that said owner, occupant, lessee, or
mortgagee has failed to keep such real estate free of public nuisances, the
Governing Body shall thereupon cause notice to be served upon the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent thereof, by certified mail. Such notice
shall describe the condition as found by the Board of Health and state that
said condition has been declared a public nuisance, and that the condition must
be remedied at once. If the person receiving the notice has not complied
therewith or taken an appeal from the determination of the Board of Health
within 5 days after receipt of certified mail the Board of Health shall notify
the Governing Body of such noncompliance and the Governing Body shall, upon
receipt of such notice, cause a hearing date to be fixed and notice thereof to
be served upon the owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee, or agent of the real
estate. Such notice of hearing shall be by personal service or certified mail
and require such party or parties to appear before the Governing Body to show
cause why such condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and
remedied. Proof of service shall be required by the Governing Body. Such notice
shall be given not less than five (5) days prior to the time of hearing,
provided that whenever the owner, lessee, occupant, or mortgagee of such real
estate is a non-resident or cannot be found in the State, then the Municipal
Clerk shall publish, in a newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality,
such notice of hearing for two (2) consecutive weeks, the last publication to
be at least one (1) week prior to the date set for the hearing. Upon the date
fixed for the hearing and pursuant to notice, the Governing Body shall hear all
objections made by interested parties and shall hear evidence submitted by the
Board of Health. If after consideration of all of the evidence, the Governing
Body shall find that the said condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner, occupant, lessee, or mortgagee to
remedy the said public nuisance at once; Provided, the party or parties may
appeal from such decision during which proceedings the decision of the
Governing Body shall be stayed. Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect
to promptly comply with the order of the Governing Body, the Governing Body
shall proceed to abate the described public nuisance. Upon completion of the
work, the Municipality shall levy the cost as a special assessment against the
land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be
collected in the manner provided for special assessments. (Ref. 17-121, 17-123,
17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§4-304   NUISANCES; JURISDICTION.
The Mayor and Chief of Police of the Municipality are directed to enforce this
Municipal Code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of
Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
Chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the Municipality
within one (1) mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Miscellaneous Provisions
§4-401   NOXIOUS USE BUILDING OR PREMISE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to use a building or premise in any part of
the Municipality for any trade, industry, or other purpose that is detrimental
to the public health, safety, and welfare. Such a noxious or offensive use is
hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance. (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS
Neb.)
§4-402   NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES; PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or permit the accumulation of
any foul, decaying, or rotting substance, including stagnant water, in or upon
any lot, street, public way, or private property in the Municipality. It shall
be also unlawful to permit the overflow of any foul liquids to the extent that
they may be hazardous to the public health or a source of discomfort to persons
living or passing in the vicinity thereof. Such noxious substances constitute a
nuisance and shall be removed or otherwise made safe and inoffensive for the
residents of the Municipality upon the written notice of the Board of Health.
The said notice shall allow five (5) days to remove the nuisance. At the
expiration of that date, the property owner shall be deemed to be guilty of
violating this ordinance if he has failed, neglected, or refused to remove the
said nuisance. (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)
§4-403   ROOMING HOUSE; MOTEL; HOTEL; SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
The operator of every rooming house, motel, hotel or similar accommodation
shall be responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and
ceilings, and for the maintenance of the sanitary condition of every other part
of the rooming house, motel, hotel or similar accommodation. (Ref. 17-123 RS
Neb.)
§4-404   RESIDENTIAL AREA; UNSANITARY PREMISES
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any dwelling to utilize the
premises for the storage of refrigerators, stoves, glass, building materials,
rubbish, or motor vehicles that are in disrepair or abandoned. It shall be the
duty of the said owner or occupant to keep the premises in a safe and sanitary
condition by removing from the premises all such items as herein described
including, but not limited to, weeds, dead trees, limbs, or other waste
materials upon notice from the Board of Health. (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)
§4-405   FOOD; UNFIT FOR SALE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, or dispense any
unwholesome or polluted food or drink whether willfully or negligently. (Ref.
17-114, 17-123 RS Neb.)
§4-406   FOOD; STORAGE AREA.
All premises used in the sale or storage of food or drink intended for human
consumption shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. (Ref. 17-114, 17-
123, RS Neb.)
§4-407   FOOD; STERILIZATION DISHES.
Any person serving food or drinks to the public shall sterilize all glasses,
dishes, or other receptacles employed or used in connection with said business
before serving food or drink to patrons with the same. (Ref. 17-114, 17-123 RS
Neb.)
§4-408   FOOD; PHYSICAL EXAMINATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person who handles milk, meat products, or other
products used, sold, or offered for sale as food for human consumption, or who
shall work or be employed in any barber shop, beauty parlor, soda fountain,
restaurant, hotel, beer tavern, or other business, place, or activity affecting
the public health to refuse or neglect to submit to a physical examination by a
duly licensed physician for the purpose of determining if the said person is
infected with syphilis, venereal disease, tuberculosis, or other infectious
disease when required to do so by the Board of Health. Thereafter, until the
said person shall provide a certificate from a physician that he is free from
or is not a carrier of said infectious diseases to such an extent as not to be
adverse to the public health, it shall be unlawful for the said person to
handle or be employed in any shop, plant, or place of business herein
mentioned. All physical examinations herein prescribed shall include laboratory
tests, the results of which shall be made a part of the said certificate. One
(1) copy shall be delivered to the Board of Health who shall consider and hold
the same as confidential and privileged infomrntion except to the employer of
the said person if he is employed; Provided, in any prosecution hereafter
brought for violation of this Section the health certificate shall be
admissible in evidence as in the case of other public records. Any physician
who shall have made the physical examination leading to the issuance of the
health certificate shall be called as a witness in any prosecution brought
hereunder to give competent testimony as to the facts. case history, and
conclusions of his said examination. It shall be unlawful for any employer to
continue to employ any person who refuses to apply for or fails to meet the
health requirements of a health certificate. (Ref. 17-114, 17-123 RS Neb.)
Chapter 5
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Article 1. Definitions
§5-101   DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions and those in Chapter 39 of the Statutes of Nebraska
shall be applied throughout this Chapter. Where no definition is specified, the
normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   ALLEY. The term "alley" shall mean the entire width between the property
lines of every way or place of whatever nature. when any part thereof is open
to the use of the public as a matter of right for vehicular traffic, when the
entire width between property lines of said way or place does not exceed 20
feet.
   ALLEY ENTRANCE. The term "alley entrance" shall mean the extension of the
alley from the lot line to the street curb line.
   ARTERIAL STREET. The term "arterial street" shall mean a street designated
as such by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref. 39-602 (4) RS Neb.)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The term "authorized emergency vehicle" shall
mean vehicles of the Fire Department and of the Police Department of the
Municipality and ambulances. (Ref. 39-602 (5) RS Neb.)
   CROSSWALKS. The term "crosswalk" shall mean that portion of a roadway
included within the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of
sidewalks at intersections or any other portion of the roadway distinctly
indicated as a pedestrian crosswalk. (Ref. 39-602 (13) RS Neb.)
   CURB. The term "curb" shall mean the lateral boundaries of that portion of a
street designated for the use of vehicles whether marked by curb stones or not
so marked.
   DRIVER. The term "driver" shall mean every person who drives or is in the
actual physical control of a vehicle. (Ref. 39-602 (59) RS Neb.)
   INTERSECTION OR STREET INTERSECTION. The terms "intersection" or "street
intersection" shall mean the space occupied by two (2) streets at the point
where they cross each other, bounded by the lot lines extended and shall
include the sidewalk space as well as the roadway. (Ref. 39-602 (37) RS Neb.)
   MOTORCYCLES. The term "motorcycle" means every vehicle designed to travel on
not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground excluding a tractor
and a minibike. (Ref. 39-602 (54) RS Neb.)
   MOTOR VEHICLES. The term "motor vehicles" shall mean every land vehicle
which is self-propelled and not operated upon rails except mopeds and self-
propelled invalid chairs. (Ref. 39-602 (53) RS Neb.)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS OR DEVICES. The term "official traffic signs or
devices" shall mean all signs, markings, and devices. other than mechanical or
electrical signals, not inconsistent with this Chapter, placed or erected by
authority of the Governing Body for the purpose of directing, warning, or
regulating traffic. (Ref. 39-602 (105) RS Neb.)
   OPERATOR. The term "operator" shall mean every person who drives or is in
actual physical control of a vehicle. (Ref. 39-602 (59) RS Neb.)
   PERSON. The term "person" shall mean every natural person, firm,
corporation, co-partnership, or association. (Ref. 39-602 (67) RS Neb.)
   POLICE OFFICER. The term "police officer" or "traffic officer" shall mean
every officer of the Police Department of the Municipality or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make arrests for the violation of
traffic regulation. (Ref. 39-602 (70) RS Neb.)
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. The term "private driveway" shall mean every road or
driveway not open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ref. 39-602 (71) RS Neb.)
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The term "right-of-way" shall mean the privilege of the
immediate use of the roadway of one vehicle or pedestrian over another vehicle
or pedestrian. (Ref. 39-602 (81) RS Neb.)
   SIDEWALK. The term "sidewalk" shall mean that portion of a street between
the curb lines and the adjacent property lines intended for pedestrian use.
(Ref. 39-602 (92) RS Neb.)
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The term "sidewalk space" shall mean that portion of a
street between the curb lines and the adjacent property lines.
   STOP. The term "stop" shall mean to cause complete cessation of movement.
(Ref. 39-602 (100) RS Neb.)
   STOP SIGNS. The term "stop signs" shall mean any official device placed in
any street at or near a street intersection with the word "stop" written or
inscribed thereon.
   STREET. The term "street" shall mean the entire width between the boundary
limits of any street, avenue, or way. (Ref. 39-602 (32) RS Neb.)
   TRAFFIC. The term "traffic" shall mean pedestrians, ridden animals, and
vehicles or other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any
street, alley, or public way for purposes of travel. (Ref. 39-602 (104) RS
Neb.)
   TRUCK. The term "truck" shall mean a motor vehicle equipped or used to
transport anything other than persons. (Ref. 39-602 (110) RS Neb.)
   VEHICLE. The term "vehicle" shall mean every device in, upon, or by which
any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a street, except
devices moved by human power or used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Ref. 39-602 (113) RS Neb.)
Article 2. Municipal Traffic Regulations
§5-201   TRUCK ROUTES.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
Municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those des-
ignated for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise,
and in that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes
as soon as possible in traveling through, or about the Municipality. The
Governing Body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs
indicating the streets so designated as truck routes. (Ref. 39-6,189 RS Neb.)
§5-202   ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street, or alley located in the Municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when said streets have been so designated. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§5-203   TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-204   TURNING; "U" TURNS.
No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction, except
at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the
opposite direction at any intersection where a sign is posted indicating that
U-turns are prohibited. No motor vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction after traveling through a private driveway. (Ref. 39-
651, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-205   TURNING; HAND SIGNALS.
A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously during
not less than the last one hundred (100') feet traveled by the vehicle before
turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of Roads.
The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given from the left side of
the vehicle in the following manner: STOP or decreased speed. hand and arm
extended downward; LEFT TURN, hand and arm extended horizontally; RIGHT TURN,
hand and arm extended upward. (Ref. 39-652 thru 39-654 RS Neb.)
§5-206   TURNING; GENERALLY.
Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach such
intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two (2) streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to tum to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this Section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another. (Ref. 39-650 RS
Neb.)
§5-207   TURNING; CAUTION.
The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning, or changing the
course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make such
movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement, the
operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever
the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, he shall
give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other vehicles of his
intention to make such movement. (Ref. 39-644, 39-652, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-208   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
When two (2) vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and there
is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a Municipal Policeman
stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-
of-way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked
crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where
the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a Municipal street
from a private road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield
the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated
upon official business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or
audible signals. (Ref. 39-635 thru 39-643 RS Neb.)
§5-209   RIGHT-OF-WAY; SLOW MOVING VEHICLES.
Vehicles moving slowly shall keep as close as possible to the curb on the
right, allowing more swiftly moving vehicles free passage to their left.
Vehicles in motion shall be kept between the curb at the right and the center
of the street. (Ref. 39-622, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-210   RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within one
(1) block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, such
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until such
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; Provided, said vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of proper
visual or audible signals. (Ref. 39-640 RS Neb.)
§5-211   POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.
Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver of
a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing or
meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one half of the
main traveled portion of the roadway. (Ref. 39-620 RS Neb.)
§5-212   POSITION VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; PASSING.
A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the center line of the highway in
overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, unless
such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming traffic for a
sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be made in safety.
(Ref. 39-625 RS Neb.)
§5-213   CROSSWALKS.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and maintain appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such
other places as they may deem necessary. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-214   SIGNS, SIGNALS.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street or
alley under the Municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition. (Ref. 39-609
thru 39-611, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-215   STOP SIGNS.
Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible. (Ref. 39-609 thru 39-611, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-216   LITTERING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
Governing Body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering. (Ref. 39-683 RS Neb.)
§5-217   GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass. or other articles made of, or containing,
glass. and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person responsible
for such breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be removed, from
the street. (Ref. 39-683 RS Neb.)
§5-218   SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ref. 39-619 RS
Neb.)
§5-219   SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view of
any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is an
imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts to
direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice. (Ref. 39-618 RS Neb.)
§5-220   QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
All streets, or portions thereof, lying within three hundred (300') feet of any
hospital, nursing home, or school are declared to be "quiet zones," and shall
be respected as such by all drivers. No driver of any vehicle shall within such
zones, make any unnecessary noise with radio, tape or record player, or
otherwise, or sound the horn, or other warning device, of such vehicle except
in an emergency. It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of said
Municipality to make, or cause to be made, any unnecessary noise with any
signal device, or to use the same except as a road signal. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§5-221   UNNECESSARY NOISE.
No persons shall make or cause to be made any unnecessary noise by squealing or
screeching tires, or by a radio, tape or record player, or with any signal
device. (Ref. 39-6,135 RS Neb.)
§5-222   SPEED LIMITS.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place at
a rate of speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per hour within the
residential district, and twenty (20) miles per hour within the business
district, unless a different rate of speed is specifically permitted by
ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a
different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Ref. 39-662, 39-663 RS Neb.)
§5-223   SPEED, SCHOOLS.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of fifteen (15) miles per hour past such premises, and such driver shall stop
at all stop signs located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall be
unlawful for such driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such stop
signs are located at, or near, such school premise. (Ref. 39-663 RS Neb.)
§5-224   RECKLESS DRIVING.
Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving. (Ref. 39-669.01, 39-669.02, 39-669.26
RS Neb.)
§5-225   RECKLESS DRIVING; WILLFUL.
Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a willful
disregard for the safety of persons, or property shall be deemed to be guilty
of willful, reckless driving. (Ref. 39-669.03 thru 39-669.06 RS Neb.)
§5-226   CARELESS DRIVING.
Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this Municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving. (Ref. 39-669 RS Neb.)
§5-227   NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a want
of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use under
like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving. (Ref. 39-669.26
RS Neb.)
§5-228   BACKING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the Municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; Provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one half lengths of the vehicle. (Ref.
39-675, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-229   UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street or
alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Ref. 39-672, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-230   PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if such passing
requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the center of the
street. (Ref. 39-625 RS Neb.)
§5-231   PASSING; HINDRANCE.
The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle. (Ref. 39-622 RS Neb.)
§5-232   DRIVING ABREAST.
Two (2) or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; Provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. (Ref. 39-628, 39-694 RS
Neb.)
§5-233   FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is
reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and the
traffic and condition of the street. (Ref. 39-629 RS Neb.)
§5-234   FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred (500') feet, or drive into,
or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (Ref. 39-681 RS Neb.)
§5-235   FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
No vehicle, except police vehicles. fire department vehicles, when responding
to emergency calls or orders in their several departments, ambulances
responding to emergency calls, or vehicles carrying United States mails shall
be driven through a funeral procession or cortege except with the permission of
a police officer. (Ref. 39-629, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-236   CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is in
the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3). as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle. (Ref. 39-
677 RS Neb.)
§5-237   DRAGGING; ROPE, CHAIN.
No person shall permit any rope, strap, chain or other article to drop behind
any vehicle while in use on the streets, except persons operating vehicles
transporting gasoline, benzene or other flammable materials. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§5-238   RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. (Ref. 39-677, 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§5-239   CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for
the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling upon any
bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or his bicycle, or
roller skates, to such vehicle so driven and operated by him. (Ref. 39-689 RS
Neb.)
§5-240   DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except upon a permanent or temporary driveway. (Ref. 39-676 RS Neb.)
§5-241   MOTOR VEHICLE; WRONGFUL TAKING.
Whoever wrongfully takes any automobile, or motorcycle from a garage, or any
other place where the same may have been lawfully placed, without the consent
of the owner, or who shall use any motor vehicle in bailment beyond that use
which was originally intended or agreed upon, with intent to wrongfully use the
automobile or motorcycle so taken, shall be guilty of wrongful taking of a
motor vehicle. (Ref. 28-521 RS Neb.)
§5-242   ACCIDENT; DRIVER'S DUTY.
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon a public highway,
private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any person
shall:
   1.   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident.
   2.   Give his name, address, and the registration number of his vehicle, and
exhibit his operator's, or chauffeur's license, to the person struck, or the
driver, or occupants, of any vehicle collided with.
   3.   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for medical or
surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary, or is
requested by the injured person.
The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident, whether upon the public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to property shall:
   1.   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of the accident and
ascertain the identity of all persons involved.
   2.   Give his or her name and address, and the license number of his vehicle
and exhibit his or her operator's license to the person struck, or the
occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
   3.   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for medical or
surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or is
requested by the injured person. (Ref. 60-697 RS Neb.)
§5-243   VEHICLES; UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle constructed or loaded in
such a way as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear unless such vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to
the driver a view of the street for a distance of at least two hundred (200)
feet to the rear of such vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive
upon a street, any vehicle with a sign, poster, or other non-transparent
material upon the front windshield, side windows, or rear windows of such motor
vehicle other than a certificate, or paper required to be so displayed by law.
Every windshield on a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for
removing rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device shall
be so constructed as to be operated by the driver within the vehicle. (Ref. 39-
6,124, 39-6,136, 39-6,170 RS Neb.)
§5-244   LOADS; PROJECTING.
When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the load
extends more than four (4) feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of such
vehicle, a red flag of not less than twelve (12) inches both in length and
width shall be carried by day, and a red light after sunset at the extreme rear
end of such load. (Ref. 39-6.130 RS Neb.)
§5-245   LOADS; SPILLING.
All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand, gravel, rock,
asphalt, tar, liquids, or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to
prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents. (Ref. 39-6,129, 396,137
RS Neb.)
§5-246   CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (1)   (a)   Any person driving any motor vehicle which has or is required to
have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         1.   All children under up to six (6) years of age being transported
in such vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets
federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway
Safety Administration as of January 1, 2006, and which is correctly installed
in such vehicle; and
         2.   All children six (6) years of age and less than eighteen (18)
years of age being transported in such vehicle use an occupant protection
system.
      (b)   This division (1) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on January 1, 2006, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles,
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system,
   (2)   Whenever any licensed physician determines through accepted medical
procedures that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular child
would be harmful by reason of the child's weight, physical condition, or other
medical reason, the provisions of division (1) of this section shall be waived.
The driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (3)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (1) of this section when operating such authorized
emergency vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (4)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (1) of this section if the motor vehicle is being operated in a
parade or exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in
accordance with applicable state law or local ordinances and resolutions.
   (5)   All persons being transported by a motor vehicle operated by the
holder of a provisional operator's permit or a school permit shall use such
motor vehicle's occupant protection system. (Ref. 60-6,267 RS Neb.)
   (6)   Enforcement of this section by state or local law enforcement agencies
shall be accomplished only as a secondary action when a driver of a motor
vehicle has been cited or charged with a violation or some other offense.
§5-247   SIGNS, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES, TRAFFIC SURVEILLANCE DEVICES; DEFACING
OR INTERFERING WITH.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface, injure,
remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic sign or
signal, traffic control device, or traffic control surveillance device. (Ref.
39-619, 39-619.01 RS Neb.)
§5-248   PROHIBITION ON UTILIZATION OF A DYNAMIC BRAKING DEVICE OR ENGINE
BRAKES.
   (1)    It shall be unlawful, except to avert imminent danger, for any person
to use a dynamic braking device or engine brakes, or to otherwise discharge
into the ambient air the blowdown at any stream or the exhaust of any internal
combustion engine, unless such discharge be through an appropriate muffler.
   (2)   For the purpose of this section, use of a dynamic braking device,
engine brakes shall be defined as a device which when activated retards one or
more pistons on the engine of a truck or other motor vehicle in order to assist
the truck or motor vehicle in braking and in the process of doing so creates a
loud and offensive noise from the truck or motor vehicle.
   (3)   The provisions of §
5-248 of the Municipal Code shall be enforced within the corporate limits of
the Municipality. Additionally, the jurisdiction of the Municipality and Courts
shall extend to, and the territorial application and enforcement of the
provisions of §
5-248 shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the Municipality
within one (1) mile thereof. (Ord. No. 496, 10/8/09)
§5-301   EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary traffic
regulations to cover emergencies. (Ref. 81-2005 RS Neb.)
§5-302   POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to exercise
all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street traffic and
to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary, temporarily
divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and convenience
the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every kind in
streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop upon the
signal of any police officer. (Ref. 39-6,192 RS Neb.)
§5-303   POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-304   POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
The Governing Body or the Municipal Police may at any time detail officers, to
be known as "traffic officers," at street intersections. All traffic officers
shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at the
intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the
movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful
for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic officer
notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which may have
been placed at any such intersection. (Ref. 39669.21, 39-697, 39-6,192 RS Neb.)
§5-305   TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM AND RECORDS.
The Municipal Clerk shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic citations
containing notices to appear. The Municipal Clerk shall be responsible for the
issuance of such books, and shall maintain a record of every such book, and
each citation number therein issued to the Municipal Police. The Clerk shall
require and retain a receipt for every book so issued. The Municipal Clerk
shall require the return of all copies of every traffic citation which has been
spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made, and not issued to an alleged
violator.
All records of traffic citations required herein shall be audited at least
biennially by a member of the Governing Body. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-306   TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (1)   When a citation is used by a peace officer or when a citation is used
by an official or inspector pursuant to section 18-1757 RS Neb., he or she
shall enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of
the cited person, the offense charged and the time and place the person cited
is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the
time of appearance shall be at least three (3) days, after the issuance of the
citation. One (1) copy of the citation shall be delivered to the person cited,
and a duplicate thereof shall be signed by such person, giving his or her
promise to appear at the time and place stated therein. Such person thereupon
shall be released from custody. As soon as practicable the copy signed by the
person shall be delivered to the prosecuting attorney.
   (2)   At least twenty-four (24) hours before the time set for the appearance
of the cited person, either the prosecuting attorney or other person authorized
by law to issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a
complaint charging such person with an offense or such person shall be released
from the obligation to appear as specified. A person cited pursuant to sections
29-422 and 29-429 RS Neb. may waive his or her right to trial. The Supreme
Court may prescribe uniform rules for such waivers.
   (3)   Anyone may use a credit card authorized by the court in which the
person is cited as a means of payment of his or her fine and costs. (Ref. 29-
424 RS Neb.)
§5-307   TRAFFIC CITATION; ILLEGAL CANCELLATION.
It shall be unlawful to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic
citation in any manner other than as provided herein. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-308   SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, or destroy, a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the Municipal Police, or to disregard the summons
contained on such tag or fail to appear in court as directed by said tag. (Ref.
39-697 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Parking
§5-401   VEHICLES; UNATTENDED.
No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such vehicle
to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes thereon and,
when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of such vehicle
to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle, when
traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the gears of
the vehicle in neutral. (Ref. 39-674 RS Neb.)
§5-402   PARKING; GENERALLY.
No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked, shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in such manner
as to have both right wheels within twelve (12) inches of the curb or edge of
the roadway, and so as to leave at least four (4) feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the Governing Body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls.
(Ref. 39-673, 39697 RS Neb.)
§5-403   PARKING; DESIGNATION.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb. (Ref. 39-673,
39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-404   PARKING; AREAS.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public way,
or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of vehicle
shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be prohibited.
No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked adjacent to
the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof, longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers. (Ref. 39-697
RS Neb.)
§5-405   PARKING: OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
No vehicle, while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-406   PARKING: ALLEYS.
No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading or
unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not exceed
the maximum limit of one half (1/2) hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-407   UNLOADING: FREIGHT VEHICLES.
Vehicles of an over-all length of less than twenty (20") feet. Including load,
while discharging or loading freight may back to the curb, but shall occupy as
little of the street as possible. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-408   PARKING: FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
No vehicle shall be parked within fifteen (15') feet In either direction of any
fire hydrant nor within twenty (20') feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station. The curb space within such area of fifteen (15') feet in either
direction of such fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate such
prohibition. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§5-409   PARKING: SCHOOLS. THEATRES.
The parking or stopping except for loading or unloading of passengers or
freight, of vehicles at the curb on streets directly In front of any entrance
to a school house, school building, or theatre is prohibited. Such curbs
adjacent to the entrance of said school house, school building, or theatre
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-410   PARKING: STREET INTERSECTIONS.
Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be parked
or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge
passengers, within twenty-five (25') feet of the intersection or curb lines, or
if none, then within fifteen (15') feet of the Intersection of property lines,
nor where said curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition. (Ref.
39-672 RS Neb.)
§5-411   TRUCK PARKING: RESTRICTION AND PROHIBITION.
No person shall park any truck which is more than twenty-five (25') feet in
length, or any truck tractor or trailer, or any truck having a licensed hauling
capacity in excess of three (3) tons, other than on and along the south side of
Railroad Avenue, between the posted parking signs between Sixth Street and
Seventh Street, other than while stopping temporarily for not more than one (1)
hour to load or unload cargo. No person shall park any truck, which is more
than twenty (20') feet in length, or any truck tractor, or truck trailer, on
any public street or alley in the residential district, between the hours of
sunset and sunrise for any purpose. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
494, 8/13/09)
§5-412   MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
It shall be unlawful for any person to continuously park any motor vehicle or
truck trailer on the streets, alleys or on or along any other public place,
street or alley in the residential district, or In the business district, for
more than seventy-two (72) hours, or to leave a motor vehicle unattended with
the motor running. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-413   DISABLED VEHICLES.
A disabled vehicle may be parked on or along a public street or highway until
the same can be removed therefrom. Such disabled vehicle must be removed from
the public street within 72 hours from the time that the same becomes disabled.
(Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-414   PARKING: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any vehicle
in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street, intersection, or
en'trance to an alley or public or private drive. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-415   PARKING: CURB.
No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless said
street has been designated to be a "one-way" street by the Governing Body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away. (Ref. 39-673 RS
Neb.)
§5-416   PARKING; CURBS, PAINTED.
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause the curb space to be
painted and keep the same painted as provided in this Article. No person, firm,
or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set aside,
or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles In any street, or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this Article. The marking or designating of portions of streets
or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done
only by the Municipality through Its proper officers, at the direction of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-417   PARKING; DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or public
place within this Municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person shall
adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same, while
standing on the public streets or alleys of this Municipality, excepting in
case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-418   PARKING; RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED.
   (1)   The Governing Body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use of
disabled persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing license plates
issued to such individuals pursuant to section 60-311.14 RS Neb., such other
handicapped persons, as certified by the Governing Body, whose vehicles display
the identification as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and such
other motor vehicles, as certified by the Governing Body, which display such
identification. All such permits shall be displayed in the operator's area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle's dashboard or its equivalent. Whenever
the Governing Body so designates a parking space, it shall be indicated by a
sign which is in conformance with the nineteenth (19th) edition of the Federal
Highway Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways. In addition to such sign the space may also be indicated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
space.
   (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from physically
handicapped persons or their parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a
permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor
vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in those spaces
provided for by this Section. For the purpose of this Section, PHYSICALLY
HANDICAPPED PERSONS shall mean visually handicapped persons and those
permanently physically handicapped persons who have definite walking problems
to such an extent that walking is impractical, impossible, extremely painful,
or generally detrimental to one's health, including those persons who have
respiratory problems which incapacitate their walking, any individual who has
permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or more limbs, and
disabled persons as defined in section 60-311.14 RS Neb. VISUALLY HANDICAPPED
PERSONS shall mean those persons using the white cane or guide dog. Persons
applying for a permit shall complete such forms as are provided to the
Municipal Clerk by the Departiment of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the Municipal Clerk that he or she is handicapped. The
Municipal Clerk may require medical certificates and proof of a handicapped
condition. Such application shall be forwarded to the Department of Motor
Vehicles.
   (3)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting physically handicapped
persons to park in those spaces provided for by this Section, if the motor
vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of physically handicapped
person. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle for which
it was issued is being used for the transportation of physically handicapped
persons. Persons applying for permits pursuant to this Section, shall apply for
a permit for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of physically
handicapped persons and shall complete such forms as are provided to the
Municipal Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation
of physically handicapped persons. Such application shall be forwarded to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (4)   The permit shall be a card not less than four (4) inches by four (4)
inches in size constructed so that it may be easily and conspicuously displayed
from a vehicle's rearview mirror and on which is prominently displayed the date
of expiration, the internationally accepted wheelchair symbol, which symbol is
a representation of a person seated in a wheelchair surrounded by a border six
(6) units wide by seven (7) units high, and an identifying number on the front
of the card. The color of the permit issued to handicapped or disabled persons
or for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons shall be white on
blue. The permit issued to temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or for
the transportation of temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be a
special distinguishing color as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
The name, address, phone number, date of birth, and age of the handicapped
person or disabled person to whom issued shall appear on the reverse side. The
name, address, and phone number of the party to whom issued and the license
plate number of the motor vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear
on the reverse side of the permit if such permit is issued for a motor vehicle
used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons. No permit shall be issued to any person for
any motor vehicle if any valid handicapped parking permit has been issued to
such person or for such motor vehicle is such permit has been suspended
pursuant to this Section.
   (5)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles
without cost if the original permit is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such
duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which the
original permit was issued.
   (6)   All permits authorized under this Section shall be issued for a period
ending January 1 of the fourth (4th) yearfollowing the date of issuance. No
fees will be charged for a handicapped parking permit. Permits issued under
this Section shall not be transferable, and shall be used only by the party to
whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued and only for the purpose
for which it is issued. Use by any other person, for any other motor vehicle,
or for any other purpose shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six (6) months. At the expiration of such period, a suspended permit
may be renewed.
   (7)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriffs Department, as the case may
be, and the Municipality when providing on-street parking or owning, operating,
or providing an off-street parking facility, may cause the removal from a stall
or space designated exclusively for disabled persons, other handicapped
persons, or motor vehicles for the transportation of physically handicapped
persons, of any vehicle not displaying proper identification or one (1) of the
distinguishing license plates specified in this Section ifthere is posted
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a towing zone.
Anyone parking in an on-street parking space which has been designated
exclusively for handicapped persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped persons, or in any so designated parking space in any off-street
parking facility owned or operated by the Municipality without properly
displaying the proper identification, shaH be guilty of a traffic infraction as
defined in section 39-602 RS Neb. and shall be subject to the penalties and
procedure set forth in section 39-6,122 RS Neb. (Ref. 18-1736 through 18-1742
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord No. 501, 3/10/11)
§5-419   PARKING; CURRENT LICENSE.
It shall be unlawful to park, or place on the streets, alleys, or other public
property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as provided
by law, and no such licensed motor vehicle shall be allowed to stand for a
longer period than twenty-four (24) hours. (Ref. 60-323 RS Neb.)
§5-420   PARKING; TIME LIMIT.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time limit
for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or district
designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any vehicle in
any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer than fixed
in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this Article. (Ref. 39-697
RS Neb.)
§5-421   PARKING; MAINTENANCE.
The Mayor may order any street or alley, or portion thereof, vacated for
weather emergencies or street maintenance. Notice may be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such street or alley, or
by posting appropriate signs along such streets or alleys or by posting notice
in three (3) public places in the Municipality. Such signs shall be posted not
less than four (4) hours prior to the time that the vacation order is to be
effective. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of this Section shall be
subject to the penalties provided in this Chapter, and such vehicle may be
removed and parked, under the supervision of the Municipal Police, to a
suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or operator of
such vehicle. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
§5-422   PARKING; PRIVATE LOTS.
Any person parking a motor vehicle in a properly posted, restricted parking lot
without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized to give permission shall
be guilty of violating this ordinance and the vehicle shall be subject to being
towed away at the request of such lot owner or tenant. Any person found guilty
under this Section shall be subject to the penalties provided by this code. If
the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in violation of this Section
cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation. When any
law enforcement officer observes that a motor vehicle may be in violation of
this Section, he shall personally serve or attach to such motor vehicle a
citation directed to the owner or operator of such vehicle, which shall set
forth the nature of the violation. Any person who refuses to sign the citation
or otherwise comply with the command of the citation shall be punished as
provided by this code.
Signs designating a restricted parking lot shall be readily visible and shall
state the purpose or purposes for parking on the restricted parking lot, the
hours for restricted parking, and who to contact for information regarding a
towed vehicle. (Ref. 60-2401, 60-2402 RS Neb.)
§5-423   PARKING; REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
Whenever any Police Officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a street or
alley in violation of any of the provisions of the Article, such individual may
remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off the roadway of
such street or alley or from such street or alley.
The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any vehicle
towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and storage
fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior to
all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to
retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicles.
(Ref. 39-671, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-424   PARKING; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
The provisions of this Article regulating the movement, parking, and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this Article, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. (Ref. 39-608 RS Neb.)
§5-425   PARKING; BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and duties
of the office of the Municipal Clerk. A copy of each citation issued for non-
moving traffic violations may be deposited with the Municipal Clerk, whose duty
it shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate
records of all such fines paid to him. Fines shall be payable at the office of
the Clerk. Fines shall be set by the Governing Body and on file at the Clerk's
office. All money collected by the Municipal Clerk under this Section shall be
transferred to the school district in which the Municipality lies. (Ref. 18-
1729 RS Neb.)
§5-426   PARKING; TICKETS.
All tickets issued for violations of non-moving traffic regulations contained
in this Chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   1.   The amount of the fine if paid within thirty (30) days;
   2.   The amount of the fine if not paid within thirty (30) days;
   3.   The location where payment may be made; and
   4.   The fact that a complaint will be filed after thirty (30) days if the
fine is not paid in that time.
(Ref. 29-423 RS Neb.)
§5-427   SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, or destroy, a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the Municipal Police, or to disregard the summons
contained on such tag, and fail to appear in court as directed by said tag.
(Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§5-428   PARKING ON LAWNS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive or park a motor vehicle in the front yard,
side yard, or rear yard of any residential property, except on a paved surface.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
   1.   Motor vehicle shall have the same meaning as a defined in Neb. Rev.
Stat. 60-123.
   2.   Paved surface shall be defined as cement, brick, asphalt, or rocked
areas constructed to a depth sufficient to distribute the weight of a vehicle
over such area to preclude deterioration and deflection of the area due to
vehicle load, adverse weather, or other conditions. (Ord. No. 531, 11/14/19)
Article 5. Snow Removal
§5-501   SNOW REMOVAL; EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
The Mayor, or in his absence someone designated by the Governing Body, may find
on the basis of accumulated snowfall that street conditions make it necessary
that parking on streets be restricted or prohibited for snowplowing, snow
removal or related purposes. The parking restriction or prohibition may affect
parts of or all such streets as the Governing Body may designate in the
Municipality. Each snow emergency declaration shall describe the action taken
by the Mayor, the time it will become effective, the area affected and such
other information as the Governing Body may decide is necessary. The snow
emergency declaration shall be posted in three (3) public places in the
Municipality as designated by the Governing Body.
§5-502   SNOW REMOVAL; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or have
removed a vehicle from a street to another place or location on a street or to
a lot, garage, or other similar facility designated by the Police Department
when:
   A.   The vehicle is parked or stalled on any street on which there is a
parking prohibition in effect and is interfering with snow removal operations.
   B.   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law and is interfering or about to interfere with
snow removal operation.
§5-503   SNOW REMOVAL; PENALTY.
Any person or corporation in violation of the provisions concerning snow
removal shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided by this code, plus
the charge for towing.
§5-504   PARKING; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
The provisions of this Article regulating the movement, parking, and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this Article, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. (Ref. 39-608 RS Neb.)
Article 6. Bicycles
§5-601   BICYCLE; OPERATION.
No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public highway of
this Municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in
front of the operator.
No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but every
bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator
and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all stop
signs.
No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway from one
half (1/2) hour after sunset and one half (1/2) hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than five hundred 500') feet indicating the approach or presence
of the bicycle, firmly attached to such bicycle, and properly lighted, or
without a yellow, or red light reflector attached to, and visible five hundred
(500') feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall give a clear, white
light.
No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a bicycle.
Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand
side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles
and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the right
when meeting.
No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand is
located on said sidewalk.
No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Municipality. (Ref.
39-688, 39-690, 39-691 RS Neb.)
Article 7. Minibikes
§5-701   MINIBIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the Municipality. For purposes of this
Article, "minibike" shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than fourteen (14") inches or an engine rated
capacity of less than forty-five (45) cubic centimeters displacement or any
other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-
road use only. (Ref. 60-2101.01, 60-2107 RS Neb.)
§5-702   MINIBIKES; EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this Article during any public
emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of any
recognized charitable, social, educational or community service organization.
(Ref. 60-2102 RS Neb.)
§5-703   MINIBIKES; PUBLIC LANDS.
Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the Municipality
except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref. 60-2106 RS
Neb.)
Article 8. Snowmobiles
§5-801   SNOWMOBILES; EQUIPMENT.
Every snowmobile operated within the Municipality shall be registered with the
State of Nebraska, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a
public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp, one
tail lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of sixteen (16) square inches
mounted on each side forward of the handle bars, and with brakes as prescribed
by the Director of Motor Vehicles.
All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply to
snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which, by
their nature, have no application. (Ref. 60-2002, 60-2013 RS Neb.)
§5-802   SNOWMOBILES; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile, either
owned or operated by him, to be operated:
   1.   Within the congested area of the Municipality unless weather conditions
are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe vehicular travel,
or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency.
   2.   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances.
   3.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger person or
property.
   4.   Without a lighted headlight and tail light when such would be required
by conditions.
   5.   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock.
   6.   Upon any private lands without flrst having obtained permission of the
owner. lessee or operator of such lands.
(Ref. 60-2013, 60-2015 RS Neb.)
§5-803   SNOWMOBILES; PUBLIC LANDS.
Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by the
Municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref.
60-2016 RS Neb.)
Article 9. Mopeds
§5-901   MOPEDS; DEFINED.
For the purposes of this Article, moped shall mean a bicycle with fully
operative pedals for propulsion by human power, an automatic transmission, and
a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding fifty (50) cubic centimeters,
which produces no more than two (2) brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than thirty (30)
miles per hour on level ground. (Ref. 39-6,196 RS Neb.)
§5-902   MOPEDS; OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys, or public highways of
the Municipality unless such person has a valid motor vehicle operator's
license or a valid school or learner's permit. (Ref. 39-6,197 RS Neb.)
§5-903   MOPEDS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under
Chapter 5 of this Code and Sections 39-601 to 39-6, 122 R.R.S. of Nebraska,
1943, and amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such sections
which by their nature can have no application. Such regulations applicable to
mopeds shall apply whenever a moped shall be operated upon any street, alley,
or public highway within the Municipality or upon any path set aside by the
Department of Roads or local authority for the use of mopeds. Notwithstanding
any established maximum speed limits in excess of twenty-five (25 m.p.h. miles
per hour, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of thirty (30
m.p.h.) miles per hour. (Ref. 39-6,198 RS Neb.)
§5-904   MOPEDS; OPERATION.
Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and shall not carry any other person nor shall any other
person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the manufacturer to
carry more than one (1) person.
Any person shall ride a moped only while sitting astride the seat, facing
forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying any package,
bundle, or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride,
in a position that will interfere with the operation or control of the moped or
the view of the operator. No person who rides upon a moped shall attach him or
her self or the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway. (Ref. 39-6,199 RS
Neb.)
§5-905   MOPEDS; USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any street or
highway with an authorized speed limit of forty-five (45 m.p.h.) miles per hour
or less and no vehicle shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any
moped of the full use of such lane. This Section shall not apply to mopeds or
motorcycles operated two (2) abreast in a single lane. No person shall operate
a moped between lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
Mopeds shall not be operated more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. Any
person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized speed limit of more
than forty-five (45 m.p.h.) miles per hour shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable, and shall not ride more than single file. (Ref.
39-6,200 RS Neb.)
§5-906   MOPEDS; EQUIPMENT.
Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests for such
passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than fifteen
(15) inches above the mounting point of the handlebars. (Ref. 39-6,203 RS Neb.)
Article 10. All-Terrain Vehicles and Utility-Type Vehicles
§5-1001   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES; DEFINED.
For purposes of this Article the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
   (a)   Is fifty (50) inches or less in width;
   (b)   Has a dry weight of nine hundred (900) pounds or less;
   (c)   Travels on three (3) or more low-pressure tires;
   (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one (1)
passenger;
   (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
   (f)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
(Ref. 60-6,355 RS Neb.)
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular
traffic. (Ref. 60-624 RS Neb.)
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
   (a)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      1.   Is not less than forty-eight (48) inches nor more than seventy-four
(74) inches in width;
      2.   Is not more than one hundred thirty-five (135) inches, including the
bumper, in length;
      3.   Has a dry weight of not less than nine hundred (900) pounds nor more
than two thousand (2,000) pounds;
      4.   Travels on four (4) or more low-pressure tires; and
      5.   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating
designed for at least two (2) people to sit side-by-side.
   (b)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golfcarts or low-speed vehicles.
(Ref. 60-6,355 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 485, 10/11/07; 498, 1/13/11)
§5-1002   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES; OPERATION.
   (1)   An all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle may be operated on
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the City only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (2)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle may be operated only
between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of thirty (30) miles per hour. When operating an all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle as authorized in division (1) above, the headlight and
taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a
bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five (5) feet above ground
attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area ofnot less than thirty (30) square inches and
shall be day-glow in color.
   (3)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle as
authorized in division (1) of this section shall have:
      (a)   A valid Class O operator's license of a farm permit as provided in
section 60-4,126 RS Neb.; and
      (b)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or utiHty-
type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle on
a street or highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-
type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace
officer requesting such proof within five (5) days of such a request.
   (4)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with divisions (2) and (3) above on streets and highways in parades
which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska or any department, board,
commission or political subdivision of the State.
   (5)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked lanes and the
crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked lanes
shall not be permitted. Divisions (1) through (3) and (6) of this section
authorize and apply to operation of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle only on a street or highway other than a controlled-access highway with
more than two (2) marked lanes.
   (6)   Subject to division (5) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle without
complying with divisions (2) and (3) above only if:
      (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90)
degrees to the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (d)   In crossing adivided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made. (Ref. 60-6,356 RS Neb.)
   (7)   A person who violates this section shall be punished as provided
generally in this code. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 485, 10/11/07; 498, 1/13/11)
§5-1003   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES; HEADLIGHTS.
Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall display a lighted
headlight and taillight during the period of time from one-half (1/2) hour
after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at any time when
visibility is reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric
conditions. (Ref. 60-6,357 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 498, 1/13/11)
§5-1004   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT, REQUIREMENT.
Every all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (1)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition:
   (2)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (3)   AU nited States Forest Service qualified spark arrester. (Ref. 60-
6,358 RS Neb.)
§5-1005   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; PROHIBITIONS.
No person shall:
   (1)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a cutout,
bypass, or similar device:
   (2)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so modified: or
   (3)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrester removed or
modified except for use in closed-course competition events. (Ref. 60-6,359 RS
Neb.)
§5-1006   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; COMPETITION.
All-terrain vehicles participating in competitive events may be exempted from
Sections
5-1003 to
5-1005 of this Article at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Ref. 60-6,360 RS Neb.)
Article 11. Golf Cart Vehicles
§5-1101   PURPOSE.  
   For purposes of this Article:
   (a)   Golf cart vehicle means a vehicle that has at least four (4) wheels,
has a maximum level ground speed of less than twenty (20) miles per hour, has a
maximum payload capacity of one thousand two hundred (1,200) pounds; has a
maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds; has a
maximum passenger capacity of not more than four (4) persons, is designed and
manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational
purposes, and is not being operated within the boundaries of a golf course.
   (b)   Street or highway means the entire width between the boundary limits
of any street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel. (Ord. No. 530, 11/14/19)
§5-1102   OPERATION.
   (a)   Golf cart vehicles may be operated on the streets and highways within
the corporate limits of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this Article.
   (b)   Golf cart vehicles may be operated on the streets and highways within
the corporate limits of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, if the operation
is: (i) between sunrise and sunset; and (ii) on streets with a posted speed
limit of thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less. When operating a golf cart
vehicle as authorized under this subsection, the operator shall not operate
such a vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour. A golf cart
vehicle shall not be operated at any time on any state or federal highway but
may be operated upon such a highway in order to cross a portion of the highway
system which intersects a street as follows. The crossing of a highway shall be
permitted by a golf cart vehicle only if: (a) the crossing is made at an angle
of approximately ninety (90) degrees to the direction of the highway and at a
place where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; (b) the golf
cart vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder or
roadway of the highway; (c) the operator yields the right-of-way to all
oncoming traffic that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and (d) in
crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an intersection of
such highway with a street or road, as applicable; all as per Neb. Rev. Stat.
60- 6,381.
   (c)   Golf cart vehicles may be operated on the streets and highways within
the corporate limits of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, only if such
vehicle is equipped with the following: brake light(s), an OEM muffler, and a
federally approved bicycle safety flag attached to the rear of the vehicle and
when attached to the vehicle extends not less than five (5) feet above the
ground. (Ord. No. 530, 11/14/19)
§5-1103.   REGISTRATION.
   (a)   In order to be authorized for operation on the streets and highways of
the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, all golf cart vehicles shall be registered
annually in the office of the City Clerk. A registration number will be issued
upon submitting proof of the following:
      1.   A certificate from the City Clerk indicating that the golf cart
vehicle has been inspected by an official or officials designated by the City
Council of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska and that said vehicle complies,
in full, with the equipment requirements identified by this Article.
      2.   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the golf cart vehicle
while operating such vehicle on a street or highway.
      3.   Payment of a twenty-five ($25.00) dollar annual fee for registration
of the vehicle.
   (b)   Upon compliance with the annual registration requirements identified
herein, the City Clerk shall issue a registration number for the golf cart
vehicles being registered. Said registration number must be prominently
displayed upon the front or driver’s side of said vehicle at all times while
such vehicle is in operation on the streets and highways of the City of Newman
Grove, Nebraska.
   (c)   The registration period for all golf cart vehicles shall be from May 1
to April 30 of the following year. A person may renew their annual registration
no sooner than thirty (30) days prior to its expiration. (Ord. No. 530, 11/14/
19)
§5-1104.   REGULATIONS.  
Any person operating a golf art vehicle as authorized by this Article shall be
at least sixteen (16) years old and shall possess a valid driver’s license
issued by the State of Nebraska or another state. The individual operating the
golf cart vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage, as required
elsewhere in this Article, to any peace officer requesting such proof. No
person shall operate a golf cart vehicle after daylight hours on the streets or
highways of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, in violation of the Nebraska
rules of the road as established by the Revised Statutes of the State of
Nebraska. (Ord. No. 530, 11/14/19)
§5-1105.   VIOLATIONS.  
Any person who violates any provision of this Article, specifically by
operating a golf cart vehicle on the streets and highways of the City of Newman
Grove, Nebraska in violation of any provision of this Article, shall be
punished by a fine of one hundred ($100.00) dollars, the registration for the
golf cart vehicle at issue shall be immediately revoked for a period of one (1)
year from the date of the offense and the person violating this Article shall
not be allowed to register a golf cart vehicle with the City for a period of
one (1) year from the date of the offense. (Ord. No. 530, 11/14/19)
Chapter 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
Article 1. Dogs
§6-101   DOGS; LICENSE.
Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of three (3)
months within the Municipality shall within thirty (30) days after acquisition
of the said dog acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before the
first (1st) day of January of each year. The said tax shall be delinquent from
and after January fifteenth (15th); Provided, the possessor of any dog brought
into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to January first (1st)
of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog tax levied herein and
such tax shall be delinquent if not paid by February first (1st). All dogs
owned or harbored in the Municipality on which the taxes are delinquent may be
put to death in a humane manner at the order of the Governing Body. Licenses
shall be issued by the Municipal Clerk upon the payment of a license fee of
five ($5.00) dollars for each male dog and spayed female dog and ten ($10.00)
dollars for each unspayed female dog. Said license shall not be transferable
and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other disposition of
the licensed dog. The owner shall state at the time the application is made and
upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned and kept by him. A certificate
that the dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year of the
license, shall be presented when the license is applied for and no license or
tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603, 71-
4412 RS Neb.)
§6-102   DOGS; LICENSE TAGS.
Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until the thirty-first (31st) day of December following such licensing. In
the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the
original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the
Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set
by resolution of the Governing Body for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the General
Fund. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a suitable
design that are different in appearance each year. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603 RS
Neb.)
§6-103   DOGS; WRONGFUL LICENSING.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit or
allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other Municipal
identification other than that issued by the Municipal Clerk for dogs, nor
shall the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an
unspayed female dog with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female dog.
(Delete highlighted if a uniform fee is used. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603 RS Neb.)
§6-104   DOGS; OWNER DEFINED.
Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten (10) days or more
in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties herein prescribed. (Ref. 54-606, 71-4401 RS Neb.)
§6-105   DOGS; PROCLAMATION.
It shall be the duty of the Governing Body whenever in its opinion the danger
to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than thirty (30)
days or more than ninety (90) days from the date of such proclamation, or until
such danger is passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient
means in a house, garage, or yard on the premise wherein the said owner may
reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§6-106   DOGS; UNCOLLARED.
All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
Municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public nuisance.
Uncollared dogs found running at large shall be killed or impounded in the
Municipal Dog Shelter by the Municipal Police. (Ref. 54-605 RS Neb.)
§6-107   DOGS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at large
at any time within the corporate limits of the Municipality. It shall be the
duty of the Municipal Police to cause any dog found to be running at large
within the Municipality to be taken up and impounded. "Running at Large" shall
mean any dog found off the premise of the owner, and not under control of the
owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage
of other suitable means of physical restraint. The City will charge a twenty-
five dollar ($25.00) pick-up fee and a boarding fee rate often dollars ($10.00)
per day to house any dog or cat caught for running at large. A citizen wishing
to claim their animal will have to show proof of licensing (or license the
animal), and pay all costs associated with pick-up and boarding. (Amended by
Res. 2013-11, 11/14/13)
§6-108   DOGS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
The Municipal Police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved. (Ref. 54-605 RS Neb.)
§6-109   DOGS; VICIOUS.
(Repealed by Ord No. 466, 4/14/05) See §
6-127.
§6-110   DOGS; INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
Municipal Policeman who is performing any duty enjoined upon him by the
provisions of this Article, or to break open, or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter, any
ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of dogs
to the shelter. (Ref. 28-906 RS Neb.)
§6-111   DOGS; KILLING AND POISONING.
It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, in
any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to Municipal
Policemen acting within their power and duty (Ref. 28-1002 RS Neb.)
§6-112   DOGS; BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the Municipality. Upon the written
complaint of one (1) or more affected persons, filed within any thirty (30) day
period with the Municipal Clerk, that any down owned by the person named in the
complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions
of this Section the Municipal Police shall investigate the complaint and, if in
the opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence at
restrain such dog. The provisions of this Section shall not be construed to
apply to the Municipal Dog Shelter. (ref 17-526 l Neb.)
§6-113   DOGS; FEMALES IN SEASON.
It is hereby declar edunlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a female
dog to permit her to run at large within the Municipality while in season. Any
such female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be impounded or killed
according to the provisions herein. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§6-114   DOGS; FIGHTING.
It shall be unlawful for any person by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs to
fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight. (Ref. 17-
526 RS Neb.)
§6-115   DOGS; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored by
him, or under his charge or control, to injure or destroy any real or personal
property of any description belonging to another person. The owner or possessor
of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be made
to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage so sustained. (Ref. 54-601, 54-602 RS Neb.)
§6-116   DOGS; REMOVAL OF TAGS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§6-117   DOGS; IMPOUNDING.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to capture, secure, and remove in
a humane manner to the Municipal Animal Shelter any dog violating any of the
provisions of this Article. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane
manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water
each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than five (5) days for licensed dogs and three (3) days for
unlicensed dogs after public notice has been given unless reclaimed earlier by
the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the Municipal Clerk
within twenty-four (24) hours after impoundment as public notification of such
impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set
by resolution of the Governing Body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements within seventy-two (72) hours after release. If the
dog is not claimed at the end of required waiting period after public notice
has been given the Municipal Police may dispose of the dog in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if,
in the judgment of the Municipal Police, a suitable home can be found for any
such dog within the Municipality, the said dog shall be turned over to that
person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all
licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this Article. The
Municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog impounded in the
Animal Shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the summary and humane
manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found
for such dog. (Ref. 17-548, 71-4408 RS Neb.)
§6-118   DOGS; ANIMAL SHELTER.
The Animal Shelter shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently located for the
impounding, keeping, and destruction of dogs. The said shelter shall be
sanitary, ventilated, and lighted. (Ref. 17-548 RS Neb.)
§6-119   DOGS; RABIES SUSPECTED.
Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated in
accordance with the provisions of this Article which has bitten any person and
caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under the
supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten (10) days.
If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies
at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the
case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it
shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of
at least ten (10) days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from
confinement. (Ref. 71-4406 RS Neb.)
§6-120   DOGS; LEGAL DESTRUCTION.
Any person who owns, harbors, or in any way sustains a dog that he wishes to be
destroyed may place the same in the Animal Shelter to be destroyed and disposed
of according to the provisions herein. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.
§6-121   DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (1)   Dangerous Dogs.
      (a)   DANGEROUS DOG means any dog that, because of its aggressive nature,
training, or characteristic behavior, presents a risk of serious physical harm
or death to human beings, or would constitute a danger to human life, physical
well-being, or property, if not kept under the direct control of the owner.
This definition shall not apply to dogs utilized by law enforcement officers in
the performance of their duties. The term DANGEROUS DOG includes any dog that
according to the records of either the City or any law enforcement agency:
         l.   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered, or inflicted
severe injury on a human being on public or private property, or when
unprovoked, has chased or approached a person upon the street, sidewalks, or
any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack,
provide that such actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one (1) or
more persons and dutifully investigated by any of the above-referenced
authorities;
         2.   Has more than once severely injured or killed a domestic animal
while off the owner's property; or
         3.   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting, or is a clog trained for dog fighting.
      (b)   Procedure for Declaring a Dog Dangerous.
         1.   The City Animal Control Officer or any adult person may request
under oath that a dog be classified as dangerous as defined above by submitting
a sworn, written complaint of a form approved by the city. Upon receipt of such
complaint, the City Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner of the dog
that a complaint has been filed and that an investigation into the allegations
as set forth in the complaint will be conducted.
         2.   At the conclusion of any investigation, the City Animal Control
Officer may:
            a.   Determine that the dog is not dangerous and, if the dog is
impounded, waive any impoundment fees incurred and release the dog to its
owner; or
            b.   Determine that the dog is dangerous and order the owner to
comply with the requirements for keeping dangerous dogs set forth herein, and
if the dog is impounded, release the dog to its owner after the owner has paid
all fees incurred for the impoundment. If all impoundment fees have not been
paid within ten (10) business days after a final detennination that a dog is
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer may cause the dog to be humanely
destroyed.
      (c)   Notification of Dangerous Dog Declaration.
         1.   Within five (5) business days after declaring a dog dangerous,
the City Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner by certified mail of the
dog's designation as a dangerous dog and any specific restrictions and
conditions for keeping the dog, as set forth in this section. The City Animal
Control Officer also shall notify the Mayor and the City Police Department of
the designation of any dog as a dangerous dog. Such notification shall describe
the dog and specify any particular requirements or conditions placed upon the
dog owner.
         2.   The notice shall inform the dog owner that he or she may request,
in writing, a hearing to contest the City Animal Control Officer's finding and
designation within five (5) business days after delivery of the dangerous dog
declaration notice.
         3.   If the City Animal Control Officer cannot with due diligence
locate the owner of a dog that has been seized pursuant to this section, the
City Animal Control Officer shall cause the dog to be impounded for not less
than five (5) business days. If after five (5) days, the owner fails to claim
the dog, the City Animal Control Officer may cause the dog to be humanely
destroyed.
      (d)   Hearing on Dangerous Dog Declaration.
         1.   The Mayor and City Council shall hold a hearing within fifteen
(15) business days after receiving the dog owner's written request for such a
hearing. The Mayor and City Council shall provide notice of the date, time and
location of the hearing to the dog owner by certified mail and to the
complainant by regular mail.
         2.   At a hearing, all interested persons shal! be given the
opportunity to present evidence on the issue of the dog's dangerousness.
Criteria to be considered in a hearing required by this Section shall include
but not be limited to the following:
            a.   Provocation;
            b.   Severity of attack or injury to a person or domestic animal;
            c.   Previous aggressive history of the dog;
            d.   Observable behavior of the dog;
            e.   Site and circumstances of the incident; and
            f.   Statements from interested parties.
         3.   A determination at a hearing that the dog is in fact a dangerous
dog as defined herein shall subject the dog and its owner to the provisions of
this section.
         4.   Failure of the dog owner to request a hearing shall result in the
dog being finally declared a dangerous dog and shall subject the dog and its
owner to the provisions of this section.
      (e)   Appeal from Dangerous Dog Declaration. If the Mayor and City
Council determines that a dog is dangerous at the conclusion ofa hearing
conducted under Section 6-121(1)(d) above, that decision shall be final unless
the dog owner applies to a court of competent jurisdktion for any remedies that
may be available within thirty (30) days after receiving notice that the dog
has been finally declared dangerous. The appeal must be a trial de novo and
shall be a civil proceeding for the purpose of affirming or reversing the Mayor
and City Council's determination of dangerousness.
      (f)   Requirements/or a Dangerous Dog.
         1.   While on the property, a dangerous dog must be securely confined
indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to
prevent the entry of young children, and designed to prevent the animal from
escaping. Such pen or structure must have a minimum dimension of five (5) feet
by ten (10) feet and must have secure sides and a secure top. If it has no
bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be imbedded into the ground no less
than two (2) feet. The enclosure must also provide protection from the elements
for the dog.
         2.   The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or her premises
facing out from all sides of the premises warning that there is a dangerous dog
on the property. This sign should be visible and capable of being read from a
public highway or thoroughfare or within twenty (20) feet of the placement. In
addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign easily readable by the
public using the words "Beware of Dog."
         3.   A dangerous dog may be off the owner's premises if it is muzzled
and restrained by an approved lead or chain not exceeding three (3) feet in
length and is under the control of an adult, able-bodied person. The muzzle
must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or its respiration, but must prevent it from biting any person
or animal.
         4.   The owner of a dangerous dog shall be required to have and
maintain at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) in liability
insurance covering any damage done by the dog.
         5.   If upon the trial of any offense mentioned in this section, the
judge may in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order the City
Police Department to destroy the dog and for such purposes obtain physical
possession of said dog; any policeman may enter upon private property or may
use such reasonable and necessary force to carry into effect the order of the
court; for any dog found to be a dangerous dog under this section, the owner of
such dog shall be required to carry the liability insurance as provided above.
   (2)   Vicious Dogs.
      (a)   The following are hereby declared to be vicious dogs:
         1.   Staffordshire Bull Terrier;
         2.   American Pit Bull Terrier;
         3.   American Staffordshire Terrier;
         4.   Chows;
         5.   Dobermans;
         6.   Rottweiler;
         7.   American Bandagge Mastiff;
         8.   Neapolitan Mastiff;
         9.   Wolf;
         10.   Wolf-Hybrids;
         11.   Any dogs that have the appearance and characteristics of being
predominately of one (1) or more of the above breeds, and which substantially
conform to the standards established by the American Kennel Club or United
Kennel Club for any of the above breeds.
      (b)   Prohibition. No person shall own, posses, keep, exercise control
over, maintain, harbor, transport, or sell within the city limits of the City
of Newman Grove any vicious dog. This prohibition shall not be applied to
animals being transported through the City limits of the City of Newman Grove
within a one (1)-hour period of time.
      (c)   Procedure for Citation. The City Animal Control Officer having
knowledge which he or she believes that someone owns, possesses, keeps,
exercises control over, maintains, harbors, transports, or sells a vicious dog
in the City of Newman Grove, shall file with the Newman Grove Police Department
a sworn affidavit setting forth the basis on which they believe the animal to
be a vicious dog, the name and address of where the dog is kept, and a
description of the dog. The Newman Grove Police Department shall serve notice
upon the persons who owns, possesses, keeps, exercises control over, maintains,
harbors, transports, or sells the alleged vicious dog, that the City Animal
Control Officer has filed such affidavit. The person who is given the notice
shall have ten (10) days from the service of the notice to either permanently
remove the alleged vicious dog from the City of Newman Grove or to inform the
Newman Grove Police Department in writing that he or she admits that the
alleged vicious dog falls within the provisions of this section. If the person
given the notice fails to remove the alleged vicious dog or fails to admit that
the alleged vicious dog falls within the provisions of this section, then the
person who is given the notice shall give possession of the alleged vicious dog
to the Newman Grove Police Department or City Animal Control Officer upon their
demand, and the Newman Grove Police Department or City Animal Control Officer
shall take the alleged vicious dog to a specific veterinarian selected by the
City of Newman Grove, which said veterinarian shall be licensed as such in the
State of Nebraska. The veterinarian shall inspect the alleged vicious dog to
determine whether the dog is a vicious dog by definitions as set forth in this
section. The veterinarian shall have the option of drawing blood from the dog
and have DNA testing completed for the purpose of making this determination. In
the event that the veterinarian determines that the dog is a vicious dog as set
forth by definition in this section, the Newman Grove Police Department shall
cite the person who is given notice of the alleged vicious dog in accordance
with the provisions of this section. The cost of the veterinarian and any DNA
testing shall be awarded to the City should the person cited be convicted under
this section. In the event the person who is given notice as provided herein
fails to give possession of the alleged vicious dog to the Newman Grove Police
Department or City Animal Control Officer upon their demand, the Newman Grove
Police Department shall cite the person given notice of the alleged vicious dog
for violation of this section. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
      (d)   Trial and Order of the Court. Whenever any person is charged with
owning, possessing, keeping, exercising control over, maintaining, harboring,
transporting, or selling a vicious dog as defined in this section, that person
shall, to the satisfaction of the Court, remove said dog from the City of
Newman Grove until the trial on the citation. If the owner fails to remove the
dog within forty-eight (48) hours of the service of the citation, the Newman
Grove Police Department shall impound the dog until the trial on the citation.
If the dog is determined by plea or trial to be a vicious dog provided by this
section, the Court shall in addition to ordering the payment of fine, award the
city all impoundment fees, veterinarian and DNA testing fees, and order that
the dog shall not be returned to or kept in the City of Newman Grove. Any
person convicted hereunder who returns the vicious dog or keeps the vicious dog
in the City of Newman Grove after being convicted hereunder, shall be subject
to contempt of Court or prosecuted as a separate violation of this section.
Each twenty-four (24) hours the dog is kept in the city shall be deemed a
separate violation.
   (3)   Requests for Determination by City Animal Officer. Any person who may
be subject to this section may make a written request to the City Animal
Control Officer to determine whether and how the provisions of this section may
apply to him or her and the dogs subject to the provisions of this section. No
enforcement of the section may be taken while this written request is being
considered by the City Animal Control Officer. If the City Animal Control
Officer determines this section is applicable, the individual will be informed
of the amount of time he or she has to comply with the section. (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 492, 2/19/09; 500, 3/10/11)
§6-122   DANGEROUS DOGS; RESTRAINED.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 466, 4/14/05) See §
6-130.
§6-123   DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINED.
(Repealed by Ord No. 466, 4/14/05) See §
6-130.
§6-124   DANGEROUS DOGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control officer
if the owner is in violation of this Article. The owner shall be responsible
for the reasonable costs incurred by the Animal Control Authority for the care
of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control officer or for the
destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control authority
is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this Article.
In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the Animal Control
Authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a serious bodily injury
as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor for the first
offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) of this section that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner's immediate family. (Ref. 54-620, 54-622.01 RS Neb.)
§6-125   DANGEROUS DOGS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
Nothing in this Article shall be construed to restrict or prohibit any
governing body of the Municipality from establishing and enforcing laws or
ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of this Article. (Ref. 54-
624 RS Neb.)
§6-126   DEFINITIONS.
(Repealed by Ord. 492, 2/19/09) See §
6-121.
§6-127   VICIOUS DOGS.
(Repealed by Ord. 492, 2/19/09) See §
6-121.
§6-128   DANGEROUS DOGS.
(Repealed by Ord 492, 2/19/09) See §
6-121.
§6-129   REGISTRATION.
(Repealed by Ord. 492, 2/19/09) See §
6-121.
§6-130   REQUIREMENTS OF DANGEROUS DOGS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
(Repealed by Ord. 492, 2/19/09) See §
6-121.
§6-131   APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (1)   It shall be the duty of such persons, as from time to time may be
designated by resolution of the City Council, to apprehend any unlicensed dogs.
The Police Department shall, whenever possible, see that such dogs are
transferred to a designated kennel at the earliest possible date, where the
dogs may be taken care of and reclaimed by the owner under the rules and
regulations of said kennel. When the dog is impounded by the City before being
transferred to a kennel, the owner reclaiming the dog shall be required to pay
such amounts as are established by resolution of the City.
   (2)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department and such other persons,
as from time to time may be designated by resolution of the City Council, to
apprehend any dangerous dogs or vicious dogs running at large. Any dangerous
dog or vicious dog found running at large shall be impounded and may be
returned to its owner only after proof of registration as a dangerous dog or
vicious dog. A police officer may shoot a dog if the dog attacks the officer or
approaches the officer in a menacing fashion so that the officer believes that
the dog is about to attack.
   (3)   In any event, when a dog is impounded the impounding authority shall
give notice of the impoundment and advise the owners whether and under what
circumstances the dog may be redeemed. The owner of any animal impounded,
confined or destroyed pursuant to the terms of this Article shall be
responsible for all costs of such confinement, impoundment or destruction.
(Ord. No. 466, 4/14/05)
§6-132   REMOVAL OF DOG PENDING LITIGATION.
Whenever any person is charged with harboring a dangerous dog or vicious dog as
defined in this Article, that person shall, to the satisfaction of the Court,
remove said dog form the City until the trial of the citation. If the owner
fails to remove the dog within forty-eight (48) hours of the service of the
citation, the Police Department shall impound the dog until the trial on the
citation. If the dog is determined by plea or trial to be a dangerous dog or
vicious dog provided by this Article, it shall not be returned to or kept in
the City. Any dog returned to or kept in the City after being determined to be
a dangerous dog or a vicious dog constitutes a public nuisance as pursuant to §
4-302.12 of the Newman Grove Municipal Code. (Ord. No. 466, 4/14/05)
§6-133   LICENSE REQUIRED.
All dogs shall be licensed as provided in §
6-101 of this Code. (Ord. No. 466, 4/14/05)
§6-134   VIOLATIONS.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation of this Article occurs or continues. In addition to the foregoing
penalties, or any person who violates this Article shall pay all expenses,
including shelter, food, handling, veterinary care, and expert testimony fees
necessitated by enforcement of this Article. (Ord. No. 466, 4/14/05)
§6-135   SEVERABILITY.
If any section, clause, provision or portion of this Article is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction or by any
agency of any kind or by anyone else, the remainder of this Article shall not
be affected. (Ord. No. 466. 4/14/05)
Article 2. Animals Generally
§6-201   ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or any
person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse, mule,
cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at large on any of
the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or
pass into any public way. (Ref. 17-547 RS Neb.)
§6-202   ANIMALS; BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock. (Ref. 17-
123 RS Neb.)
§6-203   ANIMALS; WILD OR EXOTIC.
   (1)   No wild or exotic animals may be kept within the corporate limits
except such animals kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational
institutions. (Ref. 17-123 RS Neb.)
   (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, establishment, firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, corporation or company.
   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any or all of the following orders and families,
whether bred in the wild or in captivity, and also any or all of their hybrids
with domestic species. The animals listed in parenthesis are intended to act as
examples and are not to be construed as an exhaustive list or limit the
generality of each group of animals, unless otherwise specified:
      1.   Non-human primates and prosimians (chimpanzees, monkeys);
      2.   Felidae (except domesticated cats);
      3.   Ursidae (bears);
      4.   Proboscidae (elephants);
      5.   Crocodilia (alligators, crocodiles);
      6.   Artiodactyla (hippopotamuses, giraffes, camels, not cattle or swine
or sheep or goats);
      7.   Struthioniformes (ostriches);
      8.   Casuariiformes (emus);
      9.   Serpentes (poisonous or constructing snakes);
      10.   Mustelaputorius furo (ferrets).
   (3)   Penalty. Any person who possesses, keeps or harbors wild or exotic
animals shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to comply with the provisions
of this section. (Amended by Ord. No. 517, 6/11/15)
§6-204   ANIMALS; CRUELTY.
No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork, or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the Municipality. (Ref. 28-1001, 28-1002 RS
Neb.)
§6-205   ANIMALS; KILLING AND INJURING.
No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the said animal. (Ref. 28-1001, 28-1002 RS Neb.)
§6-206   ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES.
All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
§6-207   FOWLS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese,
or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits, except in
enclosed places on private property. (Ref. 17-547 RS Neb.)
§6-208   FOWLS; WRITTEN PERMISSION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on their private property poultry,
chickens, turkeys, geese, or other fowls unless, and until they have received
the written consent of the owners or lessees of the property immediately
adjoining the private property where such fowls are to be kept, and all other
property owners within one hundred fifty (150') feet of the place where such
animals are to be kept, which consent shall be filed at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall be subject to revocation by any of the said owners of
lessees at any time.
§6-209   FOWLS; COCKFIGHTING.
It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set game
cocks, game roosters, or game fowls of any kind to fighting, or by any gesture
or word to encourage the same to do so.
§6-210   PITTING ANIMALS; DEFINITIONS.
Bearbaiting shall mean the pitting of any animal against a bear. Cockfighting
shall mean the pitting of a fowl against another fowl. Dogfighting shall mean
the pitting of a dog against another dog. Pitting shall mean bringing animals
together in combat. (Ref. 28-101 RS Neb.)
§6-211   PITTING ANIMALS; PROHIBITED.
No person shall knowingly promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting,
cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another. Nor shall any
person knowingly receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly own, use, train, sell, or
possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting. Nor shall any person
knowingly permit any act as described in this section to occur on any premises
owned or controlled by him or her. (Ref. 28-101 RS Neb.)
§6-212   PITTING ANIMALS; SPECTATORS PROHIBITED.
No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an animal
against another as prohibited in section
6-211. (Ref. 28-101 RS Neb.)
§6-213   ANIMALS; ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY; DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this Article the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length oftime without making effective
provision for its food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the
animal's health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom except man. The term
does not include an uncaptured wild creature.
   BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
   EQUINE. A horse, pony, donkey, mule, hinny or llama.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any county
or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the City or any other city
or village, or any other public official authorized by the City or any other
city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations, or ordinances. (Ref. 28-1008 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 388, 3/14/91)
§6-214   ANIMALS; ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY; LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER;
POWERS; IMMUNITY.
   (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
   (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may
issue a citation to the owner as prescribed by sections 29-422 to 29-429 RS
Neb.
   (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence. (Ref. 28-1012 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 388, 3/14/91)
§6-215   ANIMALS; ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY; PENALTY.
A person who abandons, cruelly mistreats, or cruelly neglects an animal is
guilty of an offense. (Ref. 28-1009 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 388, 3/14191)
§6-215.01   ANIMALS; EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (1)   (a)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (b)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
   (2)   (a)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (b)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests. (Ref. 28-1009.02, 28-1009.03, 28-1013.01, 28-1013.02 RS Neb)
§6-216   CATS NOT TO RUN AT LARGE.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any spayed or
unspayed female cat or any male cat to permit or allow the same to run at large
within the corporate limits of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, at any time
during the year; and each day during which any such cat shall run at large in
violation of this section shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense and
punishable as such: provided, the fact that cat license for the current year
shall have been paid by the owner, keeper or harborer of such cat shall be and
constitute no defense to a prosecution under this section; any person who shall
violate this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. No. 407, 5/13/93)
§6-217   CATS, LICENSE, TAGS, AND VACCINATIONS.
   A.   VACCINATION INTERVALS. (1) Every cat four (4) months of age and older
shall be vaccinated against rabies. Young cats shall be vaccinated within
thirty (30) days after they have reached four
(4) months of age. Unvaccinated cats acquired or moved into the City of Newman
Grove must be vaccinated within thirty (30) days after purchase of arrival,
unless under four (4) months of age as specified above. (2) Every cat shall be
revaccinated following a period of not more than thirty-six (36) months since
its last vaccination with chick embryo, LEP (Low Egg Passage) Flurry Vaccine or
following a period of not more than twelve (12) months since its last
vaccination with killed or inactivated vaccine. The intervals of any other
antirabies vaccines shall be those set by the State Veterinarian.
   B.   VACCINATION CERTIFICATE. It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at
the time of vaccinating any cat, to complete a certificate of rabies
vaccination which shall include, but not be limited to the following
information: (1) The owner's name and address; (2) An adequate description of
the cat including, but. not limited to, such items as the cat's breed, sex,
age, name, and. distinctive markings; (3) The date of vaccination; (4) The
rabies vaccination tag number; (5) The type of rabies vaccine administered; (6)
The manufacturer's serial number of the vaccine used. Such veterinarian shall
issue a tag with the certificate of vaccination.
   C.   COST. The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
cat and the owner shall securely attach said tag to a collar about the cat's
neck.
   D.   EXCEPTIONS. The provisions of this section with respect to vaccination
shall not apply to any cat owned by a person temporarily remaining within the
City of Newman Grove for less than thirty (30) days.
   E.   CAT TAX. It shall be the duty of every person owning, keeping or
harboring a cat other than one temporarily visiting in this City for less than
thirty (30) days to license the same with the City Clerk, and to secure and
retain the license receipt and metallic tag furnished by the City Clerk upon
payment of the license fee hereinafter provided, such receipt disclosing the
name and address of said person and such description of said cat as may be
required for the purpose of identification; to attach and maintain to a collar
or harness of leather, or other durable material on the cat licensed, the
metallic tag of the current year, on which shall be engraved or marked, in
plain letters, NEWMAN GROVE CAT TAX, the number in figures and the .fiscal year
of issue, to secure separate license for each cat owned, kept or harbored. The
City Clerk is hereby ordered to keep a record of the person licensing said cat,
his name, address and number of license and tag, also to furnish license
receipts and such metallic tag of suitable design, same to be a different
design each year.
   F.   Cat Tax, Amount, Paid To City Clerk: When Due, When Delinquent:
Credited To General Fund. An person desiring a license mentioned in subsection
E shall pay the City Clerk for such license as follows: For each male or barren
female cat the sum of three dollars ($3.00); and the sum of four dollars
($4.00) for each unspayed female cat. The person buying such cat license shall
take the receipt of the City Clerk therefor and the City Clerk shall supply
such person with the metal tag or plate required by subsection E. The owner,
keeper and harborer of any cat so licensed shall keep the license receipt of
the City Clerk therefor. Such license receipt and metallic tag, properly
attached to the collar or harness of the cat licensed, shall entitle such
person to own, keep or harbor said cat in this City until April 30th of the
year following the year in which receipt is issued. Cat tax collected shall be
due May first (1st) of each year and shall be delinquent from and after May
tenth (10th) of each year: provided the possessor of any cat, brought into or
harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May first (1st) of any year,
shall be liable for the payment of cat tax levied herein thirty (30) days after
the cat is brought into this city.
   G.   Lost Tag. Replacement. Upon satisfactory showing made by the owner or
harborer of any cat that the original plate or tag issued in accordance with
the provisions of subsections E and F, has been lost, the City Clerk shall
issue a duplicate or new plate or tag for the balance of the year for which tax
has been paid, and may charge and collect a fee equivalent to the current
replacement cost for each such duplicate or new plate or tag so issued.
   H.   Purchase Of Tags: Cat Census: Chief Of Police Assists City Clerk In
Enforcing Cat Laws. The City Clerk shall purchase such supply of metal tags, or
plates as the Council shall direct, and shall, from time to time call upon the
Chief of Police, any policeman or such other persons as may be designated by
the Mayor, to assist in the matter of cat tax collections by taking a cat
census or by personal visitation on the premises in this City of cat owners
whose cat taxes are delinquent and it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police
to perform the duties enjoined upon him by the provisions of this section as
part of his official duties unless by appropriate resolution, the Mayor and
Council may authorize the payment of additional compensation for the
performance of said duty.
   I.   Any person owning or harboring a cat who fails to secure a license as
provided in subsection E hereof or to have the cat vaccinated as provided in
subsection B hereof, after being warned by the Chief of Police for thirty (30)
days shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in any sum not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. No. 407, 5/13/93)
Article 3. Miscellaneous Violations
§6-301   VIOLATIONS; CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage property of another intentionally
or recklessly; or intentionally or recklessly tamper with property of another
so as to endanger person or property; or intentionally or maliciously cause
another to suffer pecuniary loss by deception or threat; Provided, that the
value of the property involved is under three hundred ($300.00) dollars. (Ref.
28-519 RS Neb.)
§6-302   VIOLATIONS; CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (a)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (b)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (c)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
      (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in any
place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (A)   Actual communication to the actor; or
         (B)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (C)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a. Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person. (Ref. 28-520, 28-521 RS Neb.)
§6-303   VIOLATIONS; IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a public servant
other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended capacity. It
is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not in fact
exist. (Ref. 28-609 RS Neb.)
§6-304   VIOLATIONS; IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity. (Ref. 28-610 RS Neb.)
§6-305   VIOLATIONS; PROSTITUTION.
Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact
or sexual penetration, as those terms are defined in section 28-318 RS Neb.,
with any person not his or her spouse in exchange for money or other thing of
value, commits the offense of prostitution. (Ref. 28-801 RS Neb.)
§6-306   VIOLATIONS; PUBLIC INDECENCY.
It shall be unlawful for any person, eighteen (18) years of age or over, to
perform or procure or assist any other person to perform in a public place and
where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members of the
public:
   (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined by Subdivision (5) of Section
28-318 RS Neb.; or
   (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront or
alarm any person; or
   (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of an other person of the
same or opposite sex. (Ref. 28-806 RS Neb.)
§6-307   VIOLATIONS; REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him to
be a peace officer, to unreasonably refuse or fail to aid such peace officer
in:
   (1)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state; or
   (2)   Securing such offender when apprehended; or
   (3)   Conveying such offender to the jail of the county. (Ref. 28-903 RS
Neb.)
§6-308   VIOLATIONS; RESISTING ARREST, WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS
WEAPON.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally prevent or attempt to
prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his official authority, from
effecting an arrest on said person or on another, by:
   A.   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the
peace officer of another; or
   B.   Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
   C.   Employing means which require substantial force to overcome resistance
to effecting the arrest:
Provided, that this Section shall apply only to those actions taken to resist
arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon.
It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this Section if the peace
officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself as a peace
officer by showing his credentials to the person whose arrest is attempted.
(Ref. 28-904 RS Neb.)
§6-309   VIOLATIONS; OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
It shall be unlawful for any person, to use or threaten to use violence, force,
physical interference, or obstacle, to intentionally obstruct, impair, or
hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace by a
peace officer or judge acting under color of his official authority. (Ref. 28-
906 RS Neb.)
§6-310   VIOLATIONS; FALSE REPORTING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Furnish information he knows to be false to any peace officer or other
official with the intent to instigate an investigation of an alleged criminal
matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal matter; or
   B.   Furnish information he knows to be false alleging the existence of an
emergency in which human life or property are in jeopardy to any hospital,
ambulance company, or other person or governmental agency which deals with
emergencies involving danger to life or property; or
   C.   Furnish any information he knows to be false concerning the location of
any explosive in any building or other property to any person.
(Ref. 28-907 RS Neb.)
§6-311   VIOLATIONS; INTERFERING WITH A FIREMAN.
A person commits the offense of interfering with a fireman if at any time and
place where any fireman is discharging or attempting to discharge any official
duties, he willfully:
   A.   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any fireman in the
discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty; or
   B.   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any fireman while performing his
duties; or
   C.   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   D.   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire or
exhorts another person, as to whom he has no legal right or obligation to
protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§6-312   VIOLATIONS: PROMOTING, GAMBLING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Engage in bookmaking; or
   B.   Receive money in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme; or
   C.   Knowingly participate in any unlawful gambling as a player by placing a
bet.
(Ref. 28-1101 thru 28-1104 RS Neb.)
§6-313   VIOLATIONS; POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell, transport, place,
possess or conduct or negotiate any transaction affecting or designed to affect
ownership, custody, or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be
used in the advancement of unlawful gambling activity. (Ref. 28-1107 RS Neb.)
§6-314   VIOLATIONS; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood. (Ref. 28-1322 RS Neb.)
§6-315   VIOLATIONS; MAINTAINING NUISANCE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up or continue and maintain
any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the Municipality.
(Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)
§6-316   VIOLATIONS; PROHIBITED FENCES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley. (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321,
39-705 RS Neb.)
§6-317   VIOLATIONS; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox, freezer,
or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to children
whether on private or public property unless he shall first remove all doors
and make the same reasonably safe. (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)
§6-318   VIOLATIONS; WEED REMOVAL.
It shall be the duty of every owner of real estate in the Municipality to cut
and clear such real estate, together with one half (1/2) of the streets and
alleys abutting thereon, of all weeds and worthless vegetation that are
noxious, obstruct travel on public ways, or create a fire or health hazard.
Such weeds and worthless vegetation shall be cut so as not to extend more than
twelve (12") inches above the ground. Subsequent to the cutting of the said
weeds, all loose vegetation shall be immediately removed. Upon the failure of
the owner, lessee, or occupant having control of any such real estate to cut
and clear the said weeds and worthless vegetation as set forth hereinbefore,
the Municipal Police shall serve notice on the said owner, lessee, or occupant
to do so. In the event that the weeds and vegetation have not been removed
after a period of five (5) days, the Governing Body may order the same to be
done under the direction of the Municipal Police, and the cost thereof shall be
chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the
Municipality after being properly billed, the cost may be assessed against the
real estate and the Governing Body shall have the assessment certified to the
County Treasurer and the same shall be collected in the manner provided by law.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-563.01, 18-1719, 18-
1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)
§6-319   VIOLATIONS; DISEASED OR DYING TREES.
All trees of the species and varieties of elm, zelkova, and planera that are in
a diseased, dying, or dead condition or that may serve as a breeding place for
the European Elm Bark Beetle, Scolytus Multistriatus, or other disease carrying
insects are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be removed from
the private property on which they are located upon notice by the Municipal
Police. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Section. the
Municipal Police shall have the authority to enter on private property to
inspect the trees thereon. In the event that the trees are diseased or dead,
notice shall be given to the owner of the property by mail or personal service
and such notice shall allow the said owner ten (10) days to remove and burn the
said tree or trees. In the event that the owner is a non-resident, notice shall
be made by mail if the name and address is known. The person charged with the
removal and burning may enter into an agreement with the Municipality that such
work be accomplished by the Municipality and the expense and interest shall be
declared to be a lien upon such property from the time the same becomes due
until paid. If the owner fails, neglects, or refuses to enter into such an
agreement, or to remove the trees, the Municipal Police may enter upon the
property and proceed to direct the removal and burning of the trees and the
cost thereof shall be chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to
reimburse the Municipality after being properly billed, the costs shall be
assessed against the property and certified by the Municipal Clerk to the
County Treasurer to be collected in the manner prescribed by law. In the event
the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies,
the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send notice by means certified main, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. Failure to remove and burn the said trees shall be
deemed to be a violation. (Ref. 17-563.01, 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)
§6-320   VIOLATIONS; RADIO INTERFERENCE.
Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference; Provided, that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use
of necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference
cannot be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates, or
causes to be operated, any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually
with radio and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of a
violation. (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)
§6-321   VIOLATIONS: RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect, continue or keep up any
dam or other obstruction in any river or stream of water in this state and
thereby raise an artificial pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be
manifestly injurious to the public health and safety. (Ref. 28-1303 RS Neb.)
§6-322   VIOLATIONS; PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING,
BROOK OR STREAM.
It shall be unlawful for any person to put any dead animal, carcass or part
thereof or other filthy substance into any well, or into any spring, brook or
branch of running water, of which use is made for domestic purposes. (Ref. 28-
1304 RS Neb.)
§6-323   VIOLATIONS; EXPOSING OFFENSIVE MATTER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to put the carcass of any dead animal or
the offals from any slaughterhouse or packing house, or any spoiled meats or
spoiled fish, or any putrid animal substance or the contents of any privy vault
upon or into any creek, pond, canal, road, street, alley, lot, field, meadow,
public ground, market space or common; or whoever, being the owner or owners,
occupant or occupants thereof, to knowingly permit the same to remain in any of
the aforesaid situations, to the annoyance of the citizens of the Municipality.
It shall further be unlawful for any person to neglect or refuse to remove or
abate the nuisance occasioned thereby within twenty-four (24) hours after
knowledge of the existence of such nuisance upon any of the above described
premises owned or occupied by him, her or them, or after notice in writing from
the Municipal Board of Health. (Ref. 28-1305 RS Neb.)
§6-324   VIOLATIONS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the Municipality; Provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Governing Body. (Ref.
17-556 RS Neb.)
§6-325   VIOLATIONS; SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB gun,
or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or under
any circumstances within the Municipality. (Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.)
§6-326   VIOLATIONS; INJURY TO TREES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by them, shall make an application to
the Governing Body to do so, and the written permit of the Governing Body in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so. (Ref. 17-555, 18-
806, 28-519 RS Neb.)
§6-327   VIOLATIONS; LITTERING.
Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of any litter
on any public or private property, or in any waters, commits the offense of
littering unless:
   A.   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
   B.   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
The term litter as used in this Section means all rubbish, refuse, waste
material, garbage, trash, debris or other foreign substances, solid or liquid,
of every form, size, kind and description, but does not include the waste or
primary process of farming or manufacturing.
Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor vehicle
in violation of this Section, the operator of such motor vehicle commits the
offense of littering. (Ref. 17-123.01, 28-523 RS Neb.)
§6-328   VIOLATIONS; POSTING.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use the streets,
sidewalks or public grounds of the Municipality for signs, signposts, the
posting of handbills or advertisements, without written permission of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-140 RS Neb.)
§6-329   VIOLATIONS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturb the peace and good order of the Municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, using of obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places, or to otherwise engage in indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior. (Ref. 17-129, 17-556 RS
Neb.)
§6-330   VIOLATIONS; STREET GAMES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, kick or throw a
football, or to engage in any exercise or sport upon the Municipal streets and
sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the
Governing Body from ordering from time to time certain streets and public
places blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such
exercise and sport. (Ref. 17-142, 17-557 RS Neb.)
§6-331   VIOLATIONS; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain on
any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same. (Ref. 17-
142, 17-555, 17-557, 39-703, 39-704 RS Neb.)
§6-332   VIOLATIONS; OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water in
a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant. (Ref. 17-555, 17-970 RS Neb.)
§6-333   VIOLATIONS; MINOR, CURFEW; UNLAWFUL ACT.
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, loaf, or play in or upon any of the streets,
alleys, or other public places in the City of Newman Grove, or to be found in
any places of business, public amusement, or recreation therein after the hour
of: (1) eleven (11:00) o'clock P.M. Sunday through Thursday, until the hour of
six (6:00) o'clock AM. of the following day; and, (2) twelve (12:00) o'clock
midnight Friday and Saturday, until the hour of six (o'clock) (6:00) AM. of the
following day, unless accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care, custody or control of said minor.
   1.   Parents, Guardian, Duty. It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian,
or any other adult person having the legal care, custody, or control of any
minor under the age of eighteen (18) years, to allow or permit such minor to
loiter, wander, stroll, idle, or play in or about any of the places designated
in the first (1st) paragraph of this Section, after the hour of: (1) eleven
(11:00) o'clock P.M. Sunday through Thursday, until the hour of six (6:00)
o'clock AM. of the following day; and, (2) twelve (12:00) o'clock midnight
Friday and Saturday, until the hour of six o'clock (6:00) o'clock AM. of the
following day, unless said minor is accompanied by the parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care, custody or control of such minor.
   2.   Exceptions. The provisions of the preceding sections herein shall not
apply to any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years, if upon an emergency
errand, or legitimate business, directed by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care, custody, or control of such minor.
   3.   Condition Precedent to Confinement of Minor. No minor person, arrested
for the first time under the provisions of any section herein, shall be placed
in confinement, until he or she has been taken home, or the parents, guardian
or legal custodian have been notified, and until the arresting officer has
ascertained whether or not such minor person is within the control of its
parent, parents, guardian, or legal custodian; and, if such parent, parents,
guardian, or legal custodian shall state that said minor cannot be controlled
by them or either of them, as the case may be, then such minor shall be
proceeded against personally as provided by law; otherwise, the parent,
parents, guardian or custodian, as the case may be, shall be proceeded against.
(Amended by Ord. No. 432, 8/8/96)
§6-334   VIOLATIONS; LOITERING AND VAGRANTS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter on the streets, in the park, on
the sidewalk, or on any other public ways and property at unreasonable hours,
and those persons who are unable to give a good and satisfactory reason why
they should be there, including all vagrants and persons found without means of
support or some legitimate business, shall be deemed to be guilty of loitering.
(Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.)
§6-335   VIOLATIONS; SMOKING IN PROHIBITED AREAS.
No person shall smoke in a public place or at a public meeting except in
designated smoking areas; Provided, this prohibition shall not apply in cases
in which an entire room or hall is used for a private social function and
seating arrangements are under the control of the sponsor of the function and
not of the proprietor or person in charge of such room or hall. (Ref. 71-5707,
71-5712 RS Neb.)
§6-336   VIOLATIONS; MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR.
It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Section 53-102 RS Neb., to
obtain or attempt to obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or
by any other method, in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is
sold. (Ref. 53-102, 53-180.01, 53-180.05 RS Neb.)
§6-337   VIOLATIONS; MINOR IN POSSESSION.
It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Section 53-102 RS Neb. to
transport, knowingly possess, or have under his control in any motor vehicle,
beer or other alcoholic liquor on any public street, alley, roadway, or
property owned by the State of Nebraska or any subdivision thereof, or any
other place within the Municipal limits. (Ref. 53-102, 53-180.02, 53-180.05 RS
Neb.)
§6-338   VIOLATIONS; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways, or upon any property owned by the
Municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles
while upon the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, in theaters, dance
halls, or any other place open to the public; Provided, the provisions of this
Section shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the State of
Nebraska. (Ref. 53-186, 53-1,100 RS Neb.)
§6-339   VIOLATIONS; FIRE EQUIPMENT.
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle, or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department. (Ref. 28-519 RS Neb.)
§6-340   VIOLATIONS; FIRE HOSE.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief, or
the Assistant Fire Chief to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of the
Fire Department at any time. (Ref. 39-682 RS Neb.)
§6-341   VIOLATIONS; PRIZE FIGHTS.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the Municipality to sponsor, or
engage in any fight by agreement either as principal or second; Provided,
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit boxing exhibitions duly licensed
by the State of Nebraska. (Ref. 81-8,129, 81-8,142 RS Neb.)
§6-342   VIOLATIONS; ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (1)   (a)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in subsections (2)(a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section. (Ref. 60-
1907 RS Neb.)
      (b)   No person other than one authorized by the Municipality or
appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle
which is left unattended on a highway or other public place without license
plates affixed or which is abandoned. (Ref. 60-1908 RS Neb.)
   (2)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
      (a)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six (6) hours on any public property;
      (b)   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on any
public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
      (c)   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours after the
parking of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public
property on which parking is legally permitted;
      (d)   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private property
if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated;
      (e)   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under subsection (5) of this section; or
      (f)   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a city
ordinance or this Code.
No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under section 28-431 RS Neb. shall be an
abandoned vehicle under this subsection. (Ref. 60-1901 RS Neb.)
   (3)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to
section 60-376 RS Neb. affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of two hundred fifty ($250.00)
dollars or less, title shall immediately vest in the Municipality. (Ref. 60-
1902 RS Neb.)
   (4)   (a)   Except for vehicles governed by subsection (3) of this section,
the Municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of
an abandoned vehicle as follows:
         1.   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         2.   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (b)   The Municipality shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         1.   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
(5) days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         2.   Title will vest in the Municipality thirty (30) days after the
date such notice was mailed.
      (c)   If the Municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described in subsection (4)(b) of this section shall also be sent to the
lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to
pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (d)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
Municipality:
         1.   Five (5) days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under subsection (4)(b)1. of this
section;
         2.   Thirty (30) days after the date the notice is mailed if the
Municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         3.   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained when notice of
such fact is received.
      (e)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to subsection
(4)(d) of this section, the Municipality may retain for use, sell, or auction
the abandoned vehicle. If the Municipality has determined that the vehicle
should be retained for use, the Municipality shall, at the same time that the
notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
jurisdiction an announcement that the Municipality intends to retain the
abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will vest in the Municipality
thirty (30) days after publication. (Ref. 60-1903 RS Neb.)
   (5)   (a)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners
stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the vehicle is
no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after thirty (30) days
the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (b)   This subsection shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under section 28-431 RS Neb.
      (c)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this subsection
unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it
is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees. (Ref. 60-
1903.01 RS Neb.)
   (6)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses
incurred by the Municipality, shall be held by the Municipality without
interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle for a
period of two (2) years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the Municipality. (Ref. 60-1905
RS Neb.)
   (7)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the Municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the Municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition. (Ref. 60-1906 RS Neb.)
   (8)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the Municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle. (Ref.
60-1909 RS Neb.)
   (9)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public right-
of-way, street, highway, alley or park or other state, county, or municipally
owned property; PRIVATE PROPERTY means any privately owned property which is
not included within the definition of public property. (Ref. 60-1901 RS Neb.)
   (10)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of
an offense. (Ref. 60-1901 through 60-1911 RS Neb.)
§6-343   VIOLATIONS; COLLECTION OF TAXES, REAL ESTATE, BONDED INDEBTEDNESS,
DESTRUCTION OR REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down or remove any building
situated on any real estate while there are any delinquent taxes unpaid
thereon, or to remove any building situated within the corporate limits of any
Municipality which has an unpaid bonded indebtedness or which Municipality is a
part of or all of a school district which has such bonded indebtedness, to a
point outside of such Municipality, without paying to the County Treasurer, to
be deposited by said Treasurer in the bond sinking fund of said Municipality,
school district or Municipality and school district, as the case may be, an
amount that bears the same proportion to the total outstanding bonded
indebtedness of such Municipality, if such Municipality has such bonded
indebtedness, as the assessed valuation for the preceding calendar year of the
building sought to be removed bears to the total assessed valuation of all
taxable property in such Municipality for the preceding calendar year or, if
such school district has such outstanding bonded indebtedness, an amount which
is a similar proportion of the assessed valuation of such building sought to be
removed to the total outstanding bonded indebtedness of such school district,
or both such amounts, as the case may be. Any person so offending shall be
guilty of a violation, and shall moreover be liable to the County, to be
recovered in a civil action, for the amount of all delinquent taxes on such
real estate and to such Municipality for the amount of said proportion of any
outstandirtg bonded indebtedness of such Municipality to be recovered in the
name of such Municipality and also to such school district for the amount of
said proportion of any outstanding bond indebtedness of such school district to
be covered in the name of such school district; provided, such action may be
brought in the name of such County, Municipality or school district for such
delinquent taxes and also for such proportion or proportions, if the one
bringing such action has an interest in any of such taxes or amounts, for the
benefit of all those interested in the same. Such proportion of such
indebtedness, in either or all of such cases is hereby made and shall be a lien
and the lien of such taxes shall follow and adhere to such building or the
material thereof wherever situated, or into whatever form the same may be
converted. (Ref. 77-1725 RS Neb.)
§6-344   VIOLATIONS; SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS OR NOTICES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously shoot upon the
public highway and injure, deface, damage or destroy any signs, monuments, road
markers, traffic control or surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon said highways. (Ref. 39-619.01(1) RS Neb.)
§6-345   VIOLATIONS; REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS OR
NOTICES.
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so, to
remove any sign, traffic control or traffic surveillance device placed along a
public street, road or highway for traffic control, warning or informational
purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess such a sign
or device which has been removed in violation of this section. (Ref. 39-619.01
(2) RS Neb.)
§6-346   VIOLATIONS; REMOVING DIRT.
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb, or take away
from any street, alley, or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones, or other
materials forming a part of such street, alley, or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so from the Governing Body.
§6-347   OFFENSES; WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (1)   Lots or pieces of ground within the Municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (2)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
Municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of twelve inches (12") or more in height of weeds,
grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (3)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation oflitter on any lot or piece
of ground within the Municipality is prohibited; provided, that grass, leaves,
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (4)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of twelve inches (12") or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (5)   It shall be an offense to violate any of the provisons of §6-347 (1),
(2), (3) or (4) and any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall,
upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of an misdemeanor and shall be fined
not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of such
failure to comply.
   (6)   In the alternative, notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be
given to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if
any, by personal service or certified mail. Within five (5) days after receipt
of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the Municipality or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the Municipality may have such work done. The
costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for
two (2) months after such work is done, the Municipality may either (a) levy
and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground
so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied and assessed or (b) recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of
the work upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (7)   For purposes of this section:
      (a)   Litter shall include, but not be limited to: (i) Trash, rubbish,
refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes; (ii) Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or
stone building rubble; (iii) Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation; (iv)
Offal and dead animals; and (v) Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles,
or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character,
utility, or serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the
ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions,
or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk;
and
      (b)   Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rharrinus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (canabis sativa),
and ragweed (ambrosiaceae ). (Ref. 17-563, 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 435, 9/
12/96)
§6-348   VIOLATIONS; SEXUAL OFFENDER/PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any person who is
a sexual predator as defined herein or under similar provisions of any other
state, to reside within five (500) hundred feet of the real property comprising
a public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets the
requirements for accreditation or approval in Chapter 70 RS Neb. of the current
state statutes or a child care facility.
   (2)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the permanent residence or temporary
residence to the nearest outer boundary line of a public or nonpublic
elementary or secondary school or child care facility.
   (3)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this section, set forth at full length
herein or incorporated herein by reference shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to
have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of such violation and/or such
failure to comply.
   (4)   Exceptions. A person residing within five hundred (500) feet of any
real property comprising of a public or nonpublic elementary or secondary
school or child care facility does not commit a violation of this section if
any of the following apply:
      (a)   The person's residence results from a requirement to serve a
sentence at a jail, prison, juvenile facility, or resides in any other
correctional institution of facility including a correctional or treatment
facility operated by the state or any political subdivision.
      (b)   The person established such residence before July 1, 2006 and has
not moved from that residence.
      (c)   The person's place of residence becomes a violation of this section
solely because of annexation into the City.
      (d)   The person established a residence after July 1, 2006 and the
public or nonpublic elementary or secondary school or childcare facility within
five hundred (500) feet of the person's permanent residence was established
after the person's initial date of residence at that location.
   (5)   Severability. If any provision of this section or its application to
any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance, or the application or the provisions to other persons or
circumstances, shall not be affected.
   (6)   Definitions. As used in this section unless the context otherwise
requires.
   ACTOR shall mean a person accused of sexual assault.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY shall mean a facility licensed pursuant to the Childcare
Licensing Act.
   INTIMATE PARTS shall mean the genital area, groin, inner thighs, buttocks,
or breasts.
   RESIDENCE shall mean a place where the person regularly sleeps, where the
person has established his home, where he is habitually present, and to which
when he departs he intends to return. A residence may include more than one (1)
location and may be mobile or transitory. RESIDENCY may be shown by, among
other evidence, receipt of mail at the premises or identification of the
premises as a residence on a driver's license, vehicle registration, or other
document.
   SCHOOL shall mean a public, private, denominational, or parochial school,
which meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SERIOUS PERSONAL INJURY shall mean great bodily injury or disfigurement,
extreme mental anguish or mental trauma, pregnancy, disease, or loss or
impairment of a sexual or reproductive organ.
   SEX OFFENDER shall mean an individual who has been convicted of a crime
listed in section 29-4003 RS Neb. of the current state statutes and who is
required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the Sex Offender
Registration Act, or any person convicted under the law of another state if, at
the time of the conviction under the law of such other state, the offense for
which the person was convicted would have required registration under the
Nebraska Sex Offender Registration Act, if the conviction occurred in Nebraska.
   SEXUAL CONTACT shall mean the intentional touching of the victim's sexual or
intimate parts or the intentional touching of the victim's clothing covering
the immediate area of the victim's sexual or intimate parts. SEXUAL CONTACT
shall include only such conduct, which can be reasonably construed as being for
the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification.
   SEXUAL PENETRATION shall mean sexual intercourse in its ordinary meaning,
cunnilingus, fellatio, anal intercourse, or any intrusion, however slight, or
any part of the actor's body or any object manipulated by the actor into the
genital or anal openings of the victim's body which can be reasonably construed
as being for non-medical or non-health purposes. SEXUAL PENETRATION shall not
require emission of semen.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR shall mean an individual who is required to register under
the Sex Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as
defined in section 29-4001.01 RS Neb., and who has victimized a person eighteen
(18) years of age or younger.
   VICTIM shall mean the person alleging to have been sexually assaulted. (Ord
No. 505, 1/12/12)
Article 4. Junked, Wrecked or Abandoned Vehicles
[Editor's Note: Article 4 was repealed and replaced in its entirety by
Ordinance No. 419, 7/13/95.)
§6-401   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; NUISANCE DECLARED.
It is hereby expressly found and determined that the practice of permitting
unlicensed motor vehicles, or parts thereof, or portions therefrom, which are
in a rusted or wrecked or junked or partially dismantled, or inoperative or
abandoned condition, which are parked, permitted to remain, stored or
accumulated, on any private premises, are unsightly and unhealthful in that
such provide harborage for disease carrying insects and vermin, degrading the
aesthetic beauty of the City and constitutes a nuisance to the citizens and
residents of the City; provided, the storage or accumulation of such motor
vehicles, motor vehicle bodies and motor vehicle chassis or parts therefrom in
completely enclosed buildings shall not be considered a nuisance.
§6-402   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; STORAGE OF UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
No person shall store, retain, or keep on or permit to be stored, retained or
kept on, any private premises any motor vehicle which does not have affixed
thereto a valid current Nebraska motor vehicle license, for more than fifteen
(15) days, otherwise such shall be presumed to be junked, inoperative, or
abandoned within the terms of this Article; provided, however, that this
Article shall not apply to such motor vehicle, motor vehicle body, or motor
chassis or parts therefrom if kept in a completely enclosed building.
§6-403   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
The Police Chief or his designee may give notice of removal to the owner or
occupant of the private property upon which such vehicle is located and such
notice shall request that said vehicle be removed from said property within
five (5) days of the date of said notice and the notice shall advise that upon
failure to comply with the notice to remove, the City or its designee shall
undertake such removal with the cost of removal to be levied against the owner
or occupant of the property.
§6-404   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHIICLES; REMOVAL AFTER NOTICE.
   (1)   Upon the notice to remove being mailed by certified United States
mail, the owner of the vehicle and the owner or occupant of the private
property on which the same is located, either or all of them, shall be
responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and disposition by the
City, the owner, or occupant of the private property, where the same is
located, shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
   (2)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied within
the five (5) day period of compliance, the Chief of Police or his designee
shall have the right to take possession of said vehicle and remove it from the
premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or
refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property for the
purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this Article.
   (3)   Within forty-eight (48) hours of the removal of such vehicle, the
Chief of Police shall give notice by certified United States mail to the owner
of the vehicle and to the owner or occupant of the private property from which
the vehicle was removed, that said vehicle, or vehicles, has been impounded and
stored for violation of this Article. The notice shall give the location of
where the vehicle, or vehicles, is stored.
§6-405   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; DEFINED.
A motor vehicle shall be deemed to be an abandoned vehicle if left unattended:
   (1)   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six (6) hours on
any public property;
   (2)   For more than twenty-four (24) hours on any public property, except a
portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
   (3)   For more than forty-eight (48) hours, after the parking of such
vehicle shall have become illegal, if left on a portion of public property on
which parking is legally permitted; or
   (4)   For more than seven (7) days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
For purposes of this section public property shall mean any public right-of-
way, street, highway, alley, park, or other state, county or Municipally-owned
property; and private property shall mean any privately-owned property which is
not included within the definition of public property.
§6-406   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; VALUATION AND TITLE.
If any abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no number plates of
the current year affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, or one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less, title
shall immediately be vested in the City.
§6-407   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by section
6-406, the Chief of Police shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered
owner of such vehicle as follows:
      (a)   Abandoned vehicle with number plates affixed, to be jurisdiction
which issued such number plates; or
      (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no number plates affixed, to the department
of Motor Vehicles.
   (2)   The Chief of Police shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been recovered as an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, it will be sold at public auction after five (5) days from
the date such notice was mailed. If the agency described in subsection (1) of
this section also notifies the City that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
   (3)   Title to such abandoned vehicles, if unclaimed, shall be vested in the
City five (5) days from the date such notice is mailed, or if the last-
registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice of such fact is received.
§6-408   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; PROCEEDS OF SALES; DISPOSITION.
Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle less any expenses incurred
by the City shall be held by the City without interest, for the benefit of the
owner of such vehicle for a period of two (2) years. If not claimed within such
two-year period, such proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the City.
§6-409   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR REMOVAL.
Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle shall be removed nor the City shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the City or its contractual agent, or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
§6-410   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; PERSON CANNOT ABANDON VEHICLE.
No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle.
§6-411   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; DESTRUCTION, DEFACEMENT OR
REMOVAL OF PARTS.
No person other than one authorized by the City shall destroy, deface or remove
any part of a vehicle which is left unattended on a highway or other public
place without number plates affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
§6-412   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; COST OF REMOVAL AND STORAGE.
The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to the City
for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
§6-413   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED
VEHICLES.
The owner or any vehicle seized under the provisions of this Article may redeem
such vehicle at any time after its removal but prior to the sale or destruction
thereof upon proof of ownership, presentment of a valid registration
certificate, current license plates, and payment to the Chief of Police of such
sum as said Chief may determine and fix for the actual and reasonable expense
of removal, and any preliminary sale advertising expenses, including a
reasonable amount for storage for each vehicle redeemed.
§6-414   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; REFUSAL OF ENTRY.
Subject to constitutional limitations, any person who interferes with, hinders
or refuses to allow any person to enter upon private property for the purpose
of removing vehicles as stated herein shall be guilty of an infraction.
§6-415   JUNKED, WRECKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; EXCEPTIONS.
This Article shall not apply to the premises used by an authorized salvage
dealer, nor shall it apply to the premises where a licensed motor vehicle
dealer or farm implement dealer conducts his business so long as said premises
are not a nuisance and are maintained in a healthful and safe condition.
Chapter 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
Article 1. Fires
§7-101   FIRES; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have the
authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall become
necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection of
human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The Fire
Chief may direct the Municipal Firefighters to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
§7-102   FIRES; DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a period
of thirty-six (36) hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse
to obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority
during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the
performance of their official duties. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§7-103   FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the Municipality. (Ref. 28-519 RS Neb.)
§7-104   FIRES; INTERFERENCE.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§7-105   FIRES: OBSTRUCTION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant, or
have or place any material within fifteen (15') feet of the said hydrant.
Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by
the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and
expense of the owner or claimant. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§7-106   FIRES; ASSISTANCE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§7-107   FIRES; DRIVING OVER HOSE.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department. (Ref. 39-682 RS Neb.)
§7-108   FIRES; TRAFFIC.
Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five (5) minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than five hundred
(500') feet to any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is
connected. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department, or emergency vehicles. (Ref. 39-681 RS
Neb.)
§7-109   FIRES; FALSE ALARM.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire. (Ref. 28-907, 35-520 RS Neb.)
§7-110   FIRES; PEDESTRIANS.
It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street after
a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have completely
passed. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Fire Prevention
§7-201   FIRE PREVENTION; LIFE SAFETY CODE.
Incorporated by reference into this Code are the standards recommended by the
National Fire Protection Association. known as the Life Safety Code. This Code
shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim herein. One (1)
copy of the Life Safety Code is on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902,
19-922, 81-502 RS Neb.)
§7-202   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire Marshal
of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated by
reference into this Code and made a part of this Article as though spread at
large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto. One (1) copy of
the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902,
19-922, 81-502 RS Neb.)
§7-203   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be the duty of all Municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§7-204   FIRE PREVENTION; LAWFUL ENTRY.
It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
Municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire. (Ref. 81-512 RS Neb.)
§7-205   FIRE PREVENTION; VIOLATION NOTICE.
It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the Municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five (5) days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
§7-206   FIRE PREVENTION; SCHOOL DRILLS.
It shall be the duty of the officials and teachers of all the schools in the
Municipality to cooperate with the Municipal Fire Department in conducting fire
drills in such number and at such times as the Fire Chief shall prescribe;
Provided, that at least one (1) fire drill shall be held each month. All doors
and exits leading to the outside of the school shall be kept unlocked during
school hours.
§7-207   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the Governing Body. Construction shall include the
enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. Such application
shall be furnished by the Municipal Clerk and shall require such information as
the Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a
building permit. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§7-208   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered, moved,
or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other such
noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said structure
will be reasonably fireproof. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§7-209   FIRE PREVENTION; PERMITTED REPAIRS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any building in
the fire limits where the repair is less than fifty (50%) percent of the
building unless the said person shall first submit an application to the
Municipal Clerk to make such repairs, alterations, or to add to any building
and shall state on the application that the material used will be non-
combustible and approved by the Fire Chief. Repairs in the form of patching and
other minor repairs shall not require a permit. In the event that the repairs,
alteration, or addition is to involve more than fifty (50%) percent of the
building, the owner shall be required to apply for a new building permit which
shall state that the building, when completed, shall be fireproof and made of
noncombustible materials. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§7-210   FIRE PREVENTION; IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads which are constructed
of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame shall be
considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any future
construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited. (Ref. 17-
550 RS Neb.)
§7-211   FIRE PREVENTION; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
noncombustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of fifty (50%) percent or more of its value, exclusive of the
foundation, it shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and
removed within sixty (60) days from the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§7-212   FIRE PREVENTION; REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause, to the extent of less than fifty
(50%) percent of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty
of the owner, lessee, or occupant to remove or repair the said building in
accordance with the provisions of this Article. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow a building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any
such building shall be removed or repaired within thirty (30) days after
receiving notice to do so by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§7-213   FIRE PREVENTION; PROHIBITED STOVES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow to be burned crank case
drainings, or to bum oil or other flammable substance in a homemade stove.
(Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
§7-214   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the streets, or near
any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the Municipality. (Ref.
17-556 RS Neb.)
§7-215   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRES REGULATED.
It shall be lawful for any person to set out a fire within the corporate limits
of the Municipality. Provided, however, that the Fire Chief of the Municipal
Fire Department may waive, in writing, this open burning ban by issuing an open
burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open burning. Said
permit shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a form provided by
the State Fire Marshal. (Ref. 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. No. 411, 10/14/93)
§7-216   FIRE PREVENTION; STOVES, FURNACES,AND CHIMNEYS.
All stoves, and other heating devices shall be installed at a proper distance
from combustible materials and portions of the building. Any combustible
materials or portions of the building that are dangerously close to such
heating devices shall be protected by noncombustible material. This section
shall apply both to existing structures and those which may hereafter be
erected. (Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
Article 3. Poisonous and Flammable Gas and Explosive Control
§7-301   POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION.
Any person, firm, or corporation storing or keeping for any period of time
dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other high explosives or any form of
poisonous or flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the
Municipality shall register such information with the Municipal Clerk within
ten (10) days after such gases or explosives are brought into the Municipality.
The Clerk shall provide such information to the Municipal Fire Chief and to the
Governing Body. Transfer of gases or explosives to another individual within
the Municipality shall require the individual receiving the gases or explosives
to register the transfer and the new location of the gases or explosives with
the Municipal Clerk. Also, moving gases or explosives to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of that fact to the Municipal Clerk. This
Section shall not apply to the storage of five (5) gallons or less of gasoline.
(Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
§7-302   EXPLOSIVES; TRANSPORTATION.
Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the Municipality shall first
acquire a permit from the Municipal Police and shall take such precautions and
use such route as he may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply
to the Municipal Police, or any of the Armed Services of the United States. No
vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled stop for longer than
five (5) minutes within the Municipality and in the event of mechanical
failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the Police Chief who
shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary to protect the
residents of the Municipality and a reasonable time for removal of the vehicle
from the Municipality. (Ref. 17-549, 28-1235 RS Neb.)
§7-303   EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the Municipality must
secure a permit from the Governing Body and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction and under their supervision, and in no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user's permit issued by the
Nebraska State Patrol. (Ref. 17-556, 28-1229 RS Neb.)
Chapter 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Article 1. Municipal Property
§8-101   DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The term "sidewalk space," as used herein, shall mean that
portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent property lines.
§8-102   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
The Governing Body shall have the care, supervsion, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the
Municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and free
from nuisances. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§8-103   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; TREES.
No person, or persons, shall plant, or allow to grow, any tree within the
sidewalk space without first making a written, or verbal, application to, and
receiving a written permit from the Governing Body. Any tree planted within the
sidewalk space after the adoption date of this Section shall be deemed to be
unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the discretion of the Governing
Body, be deemed to be a nuisance. When any such tree is declared to be a
nuisance, the Governing Body shall order, with proper notice, the tree removed
at the expense of the owner of the property adjacent to the sidewalk space upon
which the tree has been unlawfully planted. If the property owner fails, or
neglects, to remove, or cause to be removed, the said tree, the Governing Body
shall order the same removed and assess the expense of such removal against the
property adjacent to the sidewalk space wherein the tree is planted and
growing. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. No fee shall be charged for said permit, and
nothing in this Section shall be construed to apply to any existing trees now
growing within the sidewalk space. (Ref. 17-557.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§8-104   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTIONS.
Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this Article. Said roots may be removed by the
Municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the tree is
located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It shall be
unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys, or sidewalks. The public ways and property shall be considered
to be obstructed when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall
permit or suffer to remain on any premise owned or controlled by him any hedge,
shrubbery, bush, or similar growth within two (2') feet adjacent to the lot
line whether there is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining such premise or not. It
shall be the duty of owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and
pruned all such similar growth. Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow
within two (2') feet of the lot line contrary to the provisions of this
Article, the Governing Body may pass a resolution ordering the owner or
occupant to remove such obstructions within five (5) days after having been
served with a copy of said resolution by the Municipality stating that the
Municipality will do so and will charge the costs thereof to the owner or
occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided, or shall
collect the same by civil suit brought in the name of the Municipality against
the said owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant
engaged in construction of any building or improvement upon or near the public
ways and property to have all excavations or exposures of any kind protected
and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day and by warning lights at
night. In the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the
provisions of this Article, it shall be the duty of the Municipality to stop
all work upon said buildings and improvements until suitable guards are erected
and kept in the manner aforesaid. Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line
partially on public ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly
upon the abutting property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with
the making of any public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere
with any utility wires or pipe shall be deemed an obstruction and such trees,
shrubs, and roots may be removed by the Municipality pursuant to the procedure
prescribed above. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a notice by means of certified
mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident
property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the
current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published. (Ref.
17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§8-105   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (4) of this section, the power of the
Municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (a)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (b)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency, or;
      (c)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
The Governing Body may establish a minimum price for such real and personal
property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed
bid.
   (2)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in subsection (1) of
this section and the terms thereof, shall be published once each week for three
(3) consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general
circulation in the Municipality; provided, if a remonstrance against such sale,
signed by registered voters thereof equal in number to thirty percent (30%) of
the registered voters of the Municipality voting at the last regular Municipal
election held therein, be filed with the Governing Body within thirty (30) days
after the third (3rd) publication of the notice, such property shall not then,
nor within one (1) year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the
remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures
shall be collected within the thirty (30) day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the Municipality may be conveyed
without consideration to the State of Nebraska for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of sections 18-1001 to 18-1006 RS Neb.
   (3)   Following (a) passage of the resolution directing a sale, (b)
publishing of the notice of the proposed sale, and (c) passing of the thirty-
day right of remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale
shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser
and terms of the sale. The Municipal Clerk shall upon passage of such ordinance
certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the county in
which the property is located.
   (4)   This section shall not apply to the sale of real and personal property
if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or items of real and
personal property the total fair market value of which is less than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Following passage of the resolution directing the
sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent
places within the Municipality for a period of not less than seven (7) days
prior to the sale of the property. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an
ordinance may be required. (Ref. 17-503, 17-503.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord.
No. 429, 5/9/96)
§8-106   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Municipal official in charge of Municipal
streets to do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space,
and more than one-third (1/3) of the roadway of the public space adjacent to
the real estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be granted; and provided further, a
suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space
included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the official issuing the permit.
§8-107   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; WEEDS.
It is hereby the duty of the Street Commissioner or his duly authorized agent
to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate limits for growing
weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious weeds are found
growing thereon, he shall notify the owner or occupant thereof, to cut down
such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably done and keep the weeds
cut thereon in like manner during the growing season for weeds; provided, any
weeds growing in excess of twelve (12") inches shall be considered a violation
of this section. In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land
within the Municipality is a non-resident of the Municipality or cannot be
found therein the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody,
or control of such lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found
no one within the Municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the
duty of the Street Commissioner or his agent to post a copy of the notice on
the premise and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein
provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the Governing Body. The cost
shall then be audited and paid by the Municipality and the amount thereof shall
be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and
shall be collected as are other taxes of the Municipality or may be recovered
by civil suit brought by the Municipality against the owner of the parcel of
land. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which
the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send notice by means of certified mail,
return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published. (Amended by Ord.
No. 433, 8/8/96)
§8-108   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight (8') feet above the surface of said street or walk.
Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the Governing Body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five (5) days after having received a copy
thereof from the Street Commissioner stating that the Municipality will remove
said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is
not complied with. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§8-109   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS
WHEN REQUIRED.
The Municipality is authorized and empowered to (1) purchase, (2) accept by
gift or devise, (3) purchase real estate upon which to erect, and (4) erect a
building or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, Municipal building, or
community house for housing Municipal enterprises and social and recreation
purposes, and other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the
same for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Municipality.
Except as provided below, any such purchase can be made or building erected,
the question shall be submitted to the electors of such City or Village at a
General Municipal Election or at an election duly called for that purpose, or
as set forth in Section 17-954 RS Neb., and be adopted by a majority of the
electors voting on such questions.
If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a building
under this section are available other than through a bond issue, notice of the
proposed purchase or construction shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality and no election shall be required to approve
such purchase or construction unless a remonstrance against such purchase or
construction, signed by electors of the Municipality equal in number to fifteen
(15%) percent of the electors of the Municipality voting at the last regular
Municipal Election held therein, is filed with the Governing Body within thirty
(30) days of the publication of such notice. If a remonstrance with the
necessruy number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be
submitted to the voters of the Municipality at a General Municipal Election or
a Special Election duly called for that purpose. If such purchase or
construction is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within
one (1) year thereafter, be purchased or constructed. (Ref. 17-953 RS Neb.)
§8-110   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a Municipality may include
land adjacent to such Municipality when creating an improvement district, such
as a sewer, paving, water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension
district. The Governing Body shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby, except as provided in Section
8-316. (Ref. 19-2427 RS Neb.)
§8-111   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND
CREATION PROCEDURE.
The Municipality's Governing Body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line, sewer line, or any other such
improvement.
Except as provided in Sections 19-2428 to 19-2431 RS Neb., the Governing Body
shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs of such
improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby, whether or
not such properties were previously assessed for the same general purpose. In
creating such special improvement district, the Governing Body shall follow
procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same type of
improvement district as otherwise provided by law. (Ref. 18-1751 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Sidewalks
§8-201   SIDEWALKS; KEPT CLEAN.
It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five (5) hours after the
cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before eight-
thirty (8:30) o'clock AM. the following day; Provided, sidewalks within the
residential areas of the Municipality shall be cleaned within twenty-four (24)
hours after the cessation of the storm. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
§8-202   SIDEWALKS; BENEATH.
No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk lying
between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the Governing Body. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for said permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the Municipal Engineer. Should such plans or
specifications be disapproved by him, no permit shall be granted therefor. All
permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition that the party
receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a sidewalk over
such space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages that may be
sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of said sidewalk
being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent to the
issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space underneath the
Municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the Governing Body may require
applicant to furnish a bond to the Municipality as obligee for the benefit of
any person or persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason of such
use. The bond shall be in such sum as the Governing Body, in its discretion,
may designate.
§8-203   SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE.
(Repealed 2005)
§8-204   SIDEWALKS; REPAIR.
   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks, or
cause the construction and repair fo sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deems necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in
front of which such construction or repairs are made, after having given
notice:
      (a)   By publication in one (1) issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality; and
      (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction. (Ref. 17-
522 RS Neb.)
   (2)   The notice shall:
      (a)   State that the Governing Body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (b)   Contain the Municipality's estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (c)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten (10) days
after the date of publication of the notice, notify the Municipality that he or
she will repair the sidewalk within thirty (30) days after such date of
publication;
      (d)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
Municipality within the ten (10) days or, having so notified the Municipality,
fails to repair the sidewalk within the thirty (30) days, the Municipality will
cause the sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed
against the property.
   (3)   (a)   Before the Municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published. (Ref. 13-310
RS Neb.)
      (b)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested. (Ref. 13-312 RS Neb.)
      (c)   For purposes of this division, nonresident property owner means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Ref. 13-314 RS Neb.)
   (4)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the Governing Body.
   (5)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in section 17-524 RS Neb.
§8-205   SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any sidewalk
shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; Provided, if
it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the Municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the Governing Body who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any
other location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the Municipality. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade, or
elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation
indicated by the Municipal official in charge of sidewalks. (Ref. 17-141 RS
Neb.)
§8-206   SIDEWALKS; MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, order the construction of a sidewalk on
any lot or piece of ground within the Municipality. Notice of the Governing
Body's intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the Municipal
Clerk by publication of notice one (1) time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality.
A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be sent by First Class Mail to such person ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of construction. The notice required in this Section shall be
prepared by the Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
Section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or mailing as herein required.
Said notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of the
resolution ordering him to construct or cause to be constructed a sidewalk
within thirty (30) days after the date of publication and further that if he
fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the time
allowed, the Municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the
cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premise;
Provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost of said
construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall be
assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send notice by
means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of
the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published. (Ref. 17-522, 17-523 RS Neb.)
§8-207   SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
Whenever the Municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to be
done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one (1) issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality; Provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten (10) days after
the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the Governing Body, and the Governing Body shall then award the work
to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the Governing Body
may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him by
the Municipal Clerk entitling him to all assessments or special taxes, against
such real estate whenever such assessments or special taxes, shall be collected
together with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall
give the legal description of the lot, lots, or parcel of ground against which
the assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such certificate or certificates
may be assigned and transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if
held by the original contractor. The County Treasurer shall pay over to such
contractor or other holder of the certificate or certificates all assessments
or special taxes against such real estate, together with the interest and
penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation of such certificate or
certificates after said assessments or special taxes against such real estate
together with interest or penalty thereon shall have been collected.
§8-208   SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
If the owners of the record title representing more than sixty (60%) per cent
of the front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment
for sidewalk improvements, petition the Governing Body to make the same, the
Governing Body shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been
ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in
fee simple of property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
Governing Body may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
Article upon the freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the
Municipality an agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will
pay the engineering service fee and all other incidental construction costs
until paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the
freeholder desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner
gives and grants to the Municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of
such construction against the freeholder's real estate abutting the sidewalk
improvement and promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of
such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed, and specially assessed
as provided by law. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send notice by means of certified
mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident
property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the
current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
Article 3. Streets
§8-301   STREETS; NAMES AND NUMBERS.
The Governing Body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the Governing Body
may require. It shall be the duty of the Municipal official in charge of
streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign the
proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner or
owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
§8-302   STREETS; CROSSINGS.
The Governing Body may order and cause to be constructed, under the supervision
of the Municipal official in charge of streets, such street, avenue, and alley
crossings as the Governing Body shall deem necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the Municipal Clerk, said Municipal Clerk shall refer such
application to the chief street official who shall investigate and make his
recommendation to the Governing Body. Action by the Governing Body on such
application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
§8-303   STREETS; OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (1)   (a)   The Municipality shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
Municipality and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue,
alley, or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the Municipality, or
by the owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as
shall be provided by ordinance.
      (b)   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and
become a part of such property, unless the City reserves title in the ordinance
vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the City, such property
may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as
shall be deemed in the best interests of the City.
      (c)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of such property, unless the
City reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. Iftitle is
retained by the City, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased
upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the
City.
      (d)   When the Municipality vacates all or any portion of a street,
avenue, alley, or lane, the Municipality shall, within thirty (30) days after
the effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating
ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated
property is located to be indexed against all affected lots.
      (e)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         l.   There is reserved to the City the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
         2.   There is reserved to the City, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on, or below
the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the time
title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public
or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish such
purposes at any and all reasonable times. (Ref. 17-558 RS Neb.)
   (2)   The Municipality shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend
any street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or
annul, vacate, or discontinue the same. (Ref. 17-559 RS Neb.)
§8-304   STREETS; EXCAVATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
chief Municipal street official authorizing such excavations. (Ref. 17-567 RS
Neb.)
§8-305   STREETS; DRIVING STAKES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind into
the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written consent
of the chief Municipal Street official.
§8-306   STREETS; MIXING CONCRETE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering material
directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
§8-307   STREETS; HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter of
any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or lubricating oils.
§8-308   STREETS; EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling
house or business building within the limits of the Municipality where the said
dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper
guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the said
sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or
business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
§8-309   STREETS; HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter, or curb; Provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the Municipal Police are hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in
this Section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths (5/16) of an inch in diameter
inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread
surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths (7/64) of an inch between November
1, and March 15; Provided, that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets. It shall be permissible to use a rubber tired crane with a fixed load
when such vehicle will be transported on a state highway or on any road within
the corporate limits of the Municipality, the Municipality in which the crane
is intended to be transported has authorized a one-day (1) permit for the
transportation of the crane and specified the route to be used and the hours
during which the crane can be transported, such vehicle is escorted by another
vehicle or vehicles assigned by the Municipality, and such vehicle's gross
weight does not exceed the limits set out in 39-6,180(10) RS Neb. and it shall
be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle
when required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition tending to
cause a vehicle to slide or skid. (Ref. 39-6,131 RS Neb.)
§8-310   STREETS; CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
The chief street official shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric
service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers
of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during such
construction. Said notice shall be published one (1) time in a legal newspaper
at least twenty (20) days prior to the beginning of such construction by the
party undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the Municipality.
§8-311   STREETS; PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public service
companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the streets,
alleys, and common grounds of the Municipality. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the Governing Body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the Governing Body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and
other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the Governing Body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Governing Body and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within
twenty-four (24) hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The
Governing Body shall designate another location as closely as possible where
said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, may be reset
or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances,
shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they will not
interfere with the water system; sewerage system; poles, wires, and mains of
any public utility; adjacent buildings: or with travel on the public ways and
property. Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the Municipality.
§8-312   STREETS; CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be authorized
by law, the Governing Body shall have power and authority to levy and collect
special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground adjacent to,
abutting upon, or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue, alley, or
sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and guttered,
graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed,
or otherwise improved or repaired. The Governing Body sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the Municipality at least four (4) weeks before the
same shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may
be had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as "special assessments for improvements" and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other Municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said County unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of
the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send notice by means of certified
mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident
property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the
current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published. (Ref.
17-511, 17-524, 19-2428 thru 19-2431, 45-104.01 RS Neb.)
§8-313   STREETS; PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more than
sixty (60%) per cent of the front footage of the property directly abutting
upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds
proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk,
petitioning therefor, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such
work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor,
and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels ofland abutting on or
adjacent to such street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefited
thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of
such improvement. The Governing Body shall have the discretion to deny the
formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the
Governing Body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Ref. 17-510 RS Neb.)
§8-314   STREETS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS, OBJECTIONS.
Whenever the Governing Body shall deem it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and after the passage,
approval, and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district or districts for six (6) days in a legal
newspaper of the Municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive
weeks, if the same be a weekly newspaper. If the owners of the record title
representing more than fifty (50%) per cent of the front footage of the
property directly abutting on the street, streets, alley, or alleys to be
improved, shall file with the Municipal Clerk within twenty (20) days after the
first publication of said notice, written objections to the creation of such
district or districts, said improvements shall not be made as provided in said
ordinance; but said ordinance shall be repealed. If said objections are not
filed against the district in the time and manner aforesaid, the Governing Body
shall forthwith cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, and
shall contract therefor, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of
land abutting on or adjacent to such street, streets, alley or alleys
especially benefited thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits,
to pay the cost of such improvement. (Ref. 17-511 RS Neb.)
§8-316   STREETS; IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the Municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the
Municipality. When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to
the Municipality, the Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby. (Ref. 17-509 RS Neb.)
§8-316   STREETS; IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
The Mayor and City Council shall have the power by a three-fourths (3/4) vote
of the Governing Body, to create by ordinance a paving, graveling or other
improvement district and to order such work done upon any federal or state
highway in the Municipality or upon a street or route, designated by the Mayor
and City Council as a main thoroughfare that connects, on both ends, to either
a federal or state highway or a county road. The Governing Body shall contract
therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of special benefits,
the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited
thereby. (Ref. 17-512 RS Neb.)
§8-317   STREETS; DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
Whenever the Governing Body of a Municipality creates an improvement district
as specified in Section
8-110 which includes land adjacent to the Municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, AGRICULTURAL USE means the use
ofland as described in section 77-1359 RS Neb., so that incidental use of the
land for nonagricultural or non-horticultural purposes shall not disqualify the
land and AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE means designation of any land predominantly for
agricultural or horticultural use by any political subdivision pursuant to
sections 19-924 to 19-933; Chapter 14, Article 4; Chapter 15, Article 9,
Chapter 16, Article 9; Chapter 17, Article 10 or Chapter 23, Article l RS Neb.
The primary objective of the agricultural use zoning shall be to preserve and
protect agricultural activities and the potential for agricultural,
horticultural or open use ofland. Uses to be allowed on such lands include
primarily agricultural-related or horticultural-related uses, and non-
agricultural or non-horticultural, industrial, commercial or residential uses
allowed on such lands shall be restricted so that they do not conflict with or
detract from this objective.
Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this Section
shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Governing Body of the
Municipality within ninety (90) days after creation of an improvement district
as specified in Section
8-111. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this Section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the Governing Body. The Governing
Body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property (a) is within an agricultural use zone and is
used exclusively for agricultural use, and (b) the owner has met the
requirements of this Section. The deferral provided for in this Section shall
be terminated upon any of the following events:
   1.   Notification by the owner of record title to the Governing Body to
remove such deferral;
   2.   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within sixty (60) days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
subdivision 3 of this Section.
   3.   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who does
not make application within one hundred twenty-five (125) days of the transfer;
   4.   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
   5.   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this Section
becomes disqualified for such deferral. the owner of record title of such
property shall pay to the Municipality an amount equal to:
   A.   The total amount of special assessments which would have been assessed
against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such deferral not
been granted; and
   B.   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the rate of
six (6%) percent from the dates at which such assessments would have been
payable if no deferral had been granted.
In cases where the deferral provided by this Section is terminated as a result
of a sale or transfer described in subdivision 2 or 3 of this Section the lien
for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such sale or
transfer. (Ref. 19-2428 thru 19-2431 RS Neb.)
§8-318   STREETS; DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
The Municipal official in charge of streets may require the owner of property
served by a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-
of-way to repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked,
broken, or otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely
to cause damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered letter
or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or the
agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the
Municipal official in charge of streets may cause such work to be done and
assess the cost upon the property served by such approach. (Ref. 18-1748 RS
Neb.)
§8-319   STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; DEFINITIONS AND ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   A   Special damages shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his/
her property, and which result from the Governing Body vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public ways.
Special damages shall not mean those losses or damages or injuries that a
property owner suffers that are in common with the rest of the City or public
at large, even though those losses or damages or injuries suffered by the
property owner are greater in degree that the rest of the City or public at
large.
   B.   The Mayor shall appoint three (3) disinterested residents of the
Municipality to a Special Commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the Governing Body vacating such street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. The appointees of the Special Commission shall be approved by the
Council. Only special damages, as herein defined, shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   C.   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the aforementioned Commission shall use the
following rule:
The abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of such property immediately before and
immediately after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. However, if no difference in value exists the abutting property
owner is entitled to no compensation. (Ref. 17-558, 17-559 RS Neb.)
§8-320   STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
Whenever the Governing Body decides that it would be in the best interests of
the Municipality to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way,
the Governing Body shall comply with the following procedure:
   A.   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners either by
First (1st) Class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the Municipality. The content of the notice will advise the
abutting property owners that the Governing Body will consider vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at their next regular meeting
or if a special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time
and place of such meeting.
   B.   Consent/Waiver. The Governing Body may have all the abutting property
owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the
Governing Body and waive their right of access. The signing of such form has no
effect on claims for special damages, as defined in Section
8-319 by the abutting property owners, but does create the presumption that the
Governing Body's action was proper.
However, if all the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver
form, the Governing Body may still proceed with vacating such street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted them by Sections
17-558 and 17-559 RRS Neb.
   C.   Ordinance. The Governing Body shall pass an ordinance that shall state
essentially the following:
      1.   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good or in
the best interests of the Municipality.
      2.   A statement that the Municipality shall have an easement for
maintaining all utilities.
      3.   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to abutting
property owners.
   D.   Filing. The Clerk shall file a copy of the ordinance with the County
Register of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can gain title to
their share of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way
and so that such land will be drawn to the attention of the County Assessor.
(Ref. 17-558, 17-559 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Curb and Gutter
§8-401   CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or sidewalk
for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose whatsoever
without first having obtained a written permit from the Governing Body
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the chief street official's duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it
shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the Governing Body or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he shall
inform the chief street official, who shall supervise and inspect the materials
used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be discretionary with
the Governing Body to order the chief street official, under the supervision
and inspection of the Municipal Engineer or the committee of the Governing Body
on the streets and alleys, to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and
charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such permit. The Governing
Body may consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be done by
the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued by the Governing
Body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the Municipal Treasurer
a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body for all paving, curb, or sidewalk
to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot cost of construction
basis. The deposit shall be retained by the Municipality for the purpose of
replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event the work is done by the
Municipality. In the event the Municipality elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the
Municipality until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the chief
street official or of the committee of the Governing Body on streets and
alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant shall,
before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the Municipality with a good and
sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the Governing Body in a sum set
by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Trees
[Editor's Note: Article 5 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 406, 4/
8/93.]
§8-501   TREES; DEFINITIONS.
   A.   STREET TREES. "Street trees" are herein defined as trees, shrubs,
bushes and all other woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on
either side of all streets, avenues or ways within the City of Newman Grove.
   B.   PARK TREES. "Park trees" are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes
and all other woody vegetation in public parks having individual names, and all
areas owned by the City, or to which the public has free access as a park.
   C.   COMMUNITY FOREST. "Community forest" is herein defined as all street
and park trees as a total resource.
   D.   COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. "Community Forest Manager" is herein defined
as the official representative of the Tree Board and as such is responsible for
administration of the community forestry program.
§8-502   TREES; STREET SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
The City of Newman Grove, Nebraska shall maintain a list of recommended trees
for planting in public areas. This list shall be available to residents of the
City upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private properties. The
list of recommended trees shall be updated periodically to reflect new
developments or species that will affect the population of the community
forest.
§8-503   TREES; SPACING AND DISTANCES.
Street trees may be planted no closer together than thirty feet (30') except in
special plantings approved by the Tree Board or Community Forest Manager.
§8-504   TREES; DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.
   (1)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than
six feet (6') between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street.
Street trees shall be planted no closer than three (3) feet from a sidewalk or
a street.
   (2)   No street tree shall be planted closer than thirty-five (35) feet from
any street corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs
or curblines.
   (3)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten (10) feet from any
fireplug.
   (4)   Special permission must be obtained from the Tree Board or the
Community Forest Manager when planting street trees within ten (10) feet of any
point on a line on the ground immediately below any overhead utility wire, or
five (5) lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission
line, or other utility.
§8-505   TREES; PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (1)   The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within right-of-way or bounds of all streets, alleys,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure the public
safety or to preserve or enhance the beauty of such public grounds.
   (2)   The Tree Board, as delegated by the City Council, may remove or cause
or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe
condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is
seriously affected with any injurious insect or disease.
   (3)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
§8-506   TREES; PERMITS REQUIRED.
No person shall plant a street tree or any other tree in the public right-of-
way without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk. There will be no fee
for such permit.
§8-507   TREES; COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
No person shall remove any public tree without replacing such tree with a tree
or trees of equivalent dollar value in the vicinity of the removed trees.
§8-508   TREES; TREE TOPPING.
It shall be discouraged as normal practice for any person, firm, or City
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three (3") inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this section at the determination of the Tree Board or the Community Forest
Manager.
§8-509   TREES; CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the abutting
property owner. A clearance of eight (8) feet must be maintained over walkways
and a clearance of fourteen (14) feet must be maintained over streets. Property
owners are responsible for trees on their own property as well as trees on the
public way that abut their property. (Amended by Ord. No. 519, 1/14/16)
§8-510   TREES; DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
The City shall remove or cause to be removed any dead or diseased tree within
the City limits. Diseased trees are defined as those trees that may constitute
a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which represent a
potential threat to other trees within the City. The City will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal is the responsibility of the owners
of such trees and shall be accomplished within sixty (60) days of notification.
In the event of failure to remove such trees by the owner, the City shall have
the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the
owner's property tax notice.
§8-511   TREES; REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
§8-512   TREES; INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City and/or management of its representatives or agents, while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
trees within the community forest, as authorized in this Article.
Chapter 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article 1. Building Inspector
§9-101   BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWER AND AUTHORITY.
The Building Inspector shall be the Municipal official who shall have the duty
of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
Municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance with all Municipal
ordinances. He shall have the power and authority to order at the direction of
the Governing Body, all work stopped on any construction, alteration, or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He shall at the
direction of the Governing Body, issue permission to continue any construction,
alteration, or relocation when the Governing Body is satisfied that no
provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one (1) hour. Such written order may be
served by any Municipal Policeman. In the event that the Governing Body fails
to appoint a Building Inspector, the Chief of Police shall be the Building
Inspector ex officio.
§9-102   BUILDING INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building Inspector
entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
§9-103   BUILDING INSPECTOR; PERMIT CARD.
Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish to
the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit, and the date of issuance. The said card shall be prominently displayed
on the principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
§9-104   BUILDING INSPECTOR; TIME OF INSPECTION.
The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his agent,
shall make the following inspections of the building or structure and shall
either approve that portion of the construction as completed, or shall notify
the permit holder, or his agent that the work fails to comply with the
requirements of the Municipal Code: Foundation Inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; Frame Inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete; and Final Inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work, or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
§9-105   BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPEAL FROM DECISION.
In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Chapter has
been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed for
compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this Chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his agent, or the occupant may file a notice of appeal
within ten (10) days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector has
been made. The Governing Body shall hear all appeals and shall have the power
and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for review
shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should be
made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by this Code to achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted
shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the applicant.
§9-106   BUILDING INSPECTOR; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the construction,
demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the Municipality to
have during such work all excavations, open basements. building materials, and
debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by warning lights
at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons to erect such guards
shall constitute a violation of this Section and the Municipal Police or the
Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are erected and maintained
as required.
Article 2. Building Permits
§9-201   BUILDING PERMITS.
Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to
be done, shall file with the Municipal Clerk an application for a building
permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Municipal Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the
legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to
take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the
estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such
other information as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and
specifications so filed with the Municipal Clerk shall be checked and examined
by the Governing Body and if they are found to be in conformity with the
requirements of this Chapter and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the
Governing Body shall authorize the Municipal Clerk to issue the said applicant
a permit upon the payment of the permit fee set by resolution of the Governing
Body. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures
contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by reference,
the provisions contained herein shall govern. (Ref. 17-130 thru 17-132, 17-550,
17-1001 RS Neb.)
§9-202   BUILDING PERMIT; LIMITATION.
If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within six
(6) months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued
for a period of six (6) months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be
resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an
original permit.
§9-203   BUILDING PERMITS; DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair, of
any building within the Municipality's jurisdiction, and the improvement is one
thousand ($1,000.00) dollars or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be
issued to the County Assessor. (Ref. 18-1743 RS Neb.)
Article 3. Building Moving
§9-301   BUILDING MOVING; REGULATIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any building
or structure within the Municipality without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall include the present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as the Governing Body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk shall
refer the said application to the Municipal Police for approval of the proposed
route over which the said building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall then issue the said permit; Provided,
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Governing Body and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or Municipal property is filed with the
Municipal Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten (10') feet wide, or less, and twenty
(20') feet long, or less, and when in a position to move, fifteen (15') feet
high, or less. In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building
mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas
line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating the said poles,
wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least twenty-four (24) hours, be
present and assist by disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line relative to
the building moving operation. All expense of the said disconnection, removal,
or related work shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless such
disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as provided in the said
company's franchise. Whenever the moving of any building necessitates
interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the
Municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of the said building
moving operation shall be given to the various Municipal officials in charge of
the Municipal utility departments who shall proceed in behalf of the
Municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such disconnections and do
such work as is necessary. (Ref. 39-6,177 to 39-6,180, 39-6,184, 77-1725 RS
Neb.)
§9-302   BUILDING MOVING; DEPOSIT.
At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Municipal Police
shall inspect the premises and report to the Municipal Clerk as to the extent
of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any
Municipal laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a
satisfactory report from the Municipal Police, the Municipal Clerk shall return
the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the
event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled,
covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition. the Governing Body may apply the
money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the said
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the Governing Body, as
required herein, the Governing Body may recover such excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
Article 4. Unsafe Buildings
§9-401   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DEFINITION.
The term “unsafe building” as used in this Article is hereby defined to mean
and include any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure (a) which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures; (b) which because of faulty construction, age, lack, of
proper repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; or (c) which by reason of faulty construction or any
other cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all
or any part of such structure. Any such unsafe building in the Municipality is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. 570, 10/19/23)
§9-402   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; PROHIBITION.
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe building
in the Municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person
in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an unsafe
condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while it is in
an unsafe condition. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
§9-403   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
Whenever the building inspector, the fire official, the health official, or the
Governing Body shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the
Municipality is an unsafe building, he shall file a written statement to this
effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause the property
to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of such determination in the
office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the
owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by
personal service. Such notice shall state that the building has been declared
to be in an unsafe condition; and that such dangerous condition must be removed
or remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it; and
that the condition must be remedied within sixty (60) days from the date of
receipt. Such notice may be in the following terms:
"To     (owner-occupant of premises) of the premise known and described as    .
"You are hereby notified that     (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after
inspection by     The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to
the dangerous condition).
"You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within sixty (60) days
from the date of receipt of this notice or the Municipality will proceed to do
so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Governing Body, acting as
the Board of Appeals. by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten (10) days
from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing."
If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken an
appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten (10) days from the time when this notice
is served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the Governing Body. proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
RS Neb.)
§9-404   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; HEARING AND APPEAL.
Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of the
building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the Governing Body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
Governing Body shall grant such hearing within ten (10) days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the Governing Body's decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the Governing Body rejects the appeal. the owner shall have five (5) days from
the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after
the five (5) day period the owner has not begun work, the Governing Body shall
proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal
such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which
proceedings the decision of the Governing Body shall be stayed. Where the
Municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating
to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply. (Ref.
18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
§9-405   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; EMERGENCY.
Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the health,
safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner fails to
remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the Municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
§9-406   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses to comply
with notice by or on behalf of the Municipality to repair, rehabilitate, or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the Municipality may proceed with the work specified in the notice to
the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted
to the Governing Body. The Governing Body may (1) levy the cost as a special
assessment against the lot or real estate upon which the building or structure
is located. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate, and
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments; or (2)
collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and enforce the
collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ref. 18-
1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, 77-1725 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 389, 3/14/91)
Article 5. Plumbing Code
§9-501   PLUMBING CODE; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any residential
or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water supply system
shall be lead free.
For purposes of this section, lead free shall mean:
   A.   Solders and flux - not more than two-tenths percent (.2%) lead, and
   B.   Pipe and pipe fittings - not more than eight percent (8%) lead.
(Ref. 71-5301 RS Neb.)
Article 6. Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance
[Editor's Note: Article 6 was repealed in its entirety by Ordinance No. 460, 4/
1/03. Provisions concerning the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations
are found in Chapter 11, Article 1 at §
11-101.]
§9-601 through § 9-605.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 460, 4/1/03)
Article 7. Building Codes Adopted
§9-701   INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (1)   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk ofNewman Grove, Nebraska, being marked and designated
as the International Building Code, 2006 Edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be, and is hereby adopted as the Building Code of
the City of Newman Grove, in the State of Nebraska, for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary and fit for occupational use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code on file in
the office of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, and hereby referred to,
adopted and made part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions and deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in
subsection (2) below.
   (2)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (a)   Section 101.1. Insert: the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska.
      (b)   Section 1612.3. Insert: the City of Newman Grove, Madison County,
Nebraska.
      (c)   Section 1612.3. Insert: April 24, 2008.
      (d)   Section 3410.2. Insert: August 21, 2008.
(Ord. No. 488, 8/21/08)
§9-702   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (1)   A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, being marked
and designated as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2006 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Property Maintenance Code for the City of Newman Grove, in the State of
Nebraska, for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupational use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as provided herein; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska,
and hereby referred to, adopted and made part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section, with the additions, insertions and deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in subsection (2) below.
   (2)   The following sections are hereby revised.
      (a)   Section 101.1. Insert: the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska.
      (b)   Section 103.5. Insert: The fees for activities and services
performed by the City of Newman Grove in carrying out its responsibilities
under this code shall be charged as necessary to reasonably recover costs.
      (c)   Section 302.4. Insert: twelve (12) inches.
      (d)   Section 304.14. Insert: March 1st to November 30th.
      (e)   Section 602.3. Insert: September 1st to June 30th.
      (f)   Section 602.4. Insert: September 1st to June 30th.
(Ord. No. 489, 8/21/08)
Chapter 10
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Article 1. Alcoholic Beverages
§10-101   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: DEFINITIONS.
All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied thereto,
as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska. (Ref. 53-103 RS
Neb.)
§10-102   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: LICENSE REQUIRED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the Municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§10-103   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LOCATION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain,
manage, or hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling
at retail any alcoholic liquor within one hundred and fifty (150') feet of any
church, school, hospital, or home for aged or Indigent persons or veterans,
their wives or children; Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to any
location within such distance when the said establishment has been licensed by
the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission at least two (2) years, and to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants where
the selling of alcoholic liquors Is not the principal business carried on, if
the said hotel, club, or restaurant were licensed and in operation prior to May
24, 1935.
   (b)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premise within three hundred (300') feet from the campus of any college
within the Municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15. (Ref. 53177 RS Neb.)
§10-104   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: DWELLINGS.
Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premise which has any access which leads from such premise to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premise, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his family, or personal guests. (Ref. 53-178 RS
Neb.)
§10-105   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: LICENSE DISPLAYED.
Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his license to
be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place oh the licensed
premise. (Ref. 53-148 RS Neb.)
§10-106   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premise is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony or any Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Chapter 28,
Article 3, 4, 7, 8. 10. 11. or 12 Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state; a
person who has never had a liquor license revoked for cause; a person whose
premises, for which a license is sought, meets standards for fire safey as
established by the State Fire Marshal; or a person who has not acquired a
beneficial interest in more than two (2) alcoholic beverage retail
establishments since March 4, 1963; Provided, the beneficial interest
requirement in this Section shall not apply to a person applying for an
additional license for use In connection with the operation of a hotel
containing at least twenty-five (25) sleeping rooms, or where the request is
limited to on premises sale of beer only in a restaurant. (Ref. 53-124.03, 53
125 RS Neb.)
§10-107   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: LIQUOR APPLICATION: MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors at
retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall then
notify the Municipal Clerk by registered or certified mail. The Governing Body
shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and report
its recommendation for approval or denial of the application in writing to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission within forty-five (45) days of receipt from
the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission. The Governing Body may examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant: examine, or cause to be
examined, the books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony, and
to take proof for its information in the performance of its duties. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the Governing Body may
authorize its agent, Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its
behalf. The Governing Body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing
upon the receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application.
The Governing Body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held,
and at which time the Governing Body shall receive evidence, under oath, either
orally, or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person concerning the
propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation
in, the Municipality one (1) time not less than seven (7), nor more than
fourteen (14), days before the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include,
but not be limited to, a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence
before the local Governing Body in support of or in protest against the
issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing
shall be held not more than forty-five (45) days after the receipt of notice
from the Commission. After such hearing, the Governing Body shall cause to be
spread at large in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution
recommending either issuance or refusal of such license. The Municipal Clerk
shall thereupon mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a
copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice.
(Ref. 53-131, 53-134 RS Neb.)
§10-108   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may be
automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the Governing Body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
Municipality shall file a formal application for a license, and while such
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this Article until the original license expires,
is canceled, or revoked. If such license expires within sixty (60) days
following the annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order
of the Commission for not more than one (1) year. The Municipal Clerk. upon
notice from the Commission, between January tenth (10th) and January thirtieth
(30th) of each year, shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in, or of
general circulation in the Municipality, one (1) time, a notice in the form
prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and
beer license within the Municipality; Provided, Class C license renewal notices
shall be published between the dates of July tenth (10th) and July thirtieth
(30th) of each year. The Municipal Clerk shall then file with the Commission
proof of publication of said notice on or before February tenth (10th) of each
year or August tenth (10th) of each year for Class C licenses. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this Section, the Governing Body may
request a licensee to submit an application. (Ref. 53-135, 53-135.01 RS Neb.)
§10-109   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Governing Body is authorized to regulate by ordinance not inconsistent with
the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail
and bottle club licensees carried on within the corporate limits. The Governing
Body shall further have the power and duties in respect to licensed retailers
of alcoholic beverages to cancel or revoke for cause retail or bottle club
licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquors issued to persons for premises
within its jurisdiction subject to the right of appeal to the Commission; to
enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any time upon any
premise licensed by the State of Nebraska to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Municipal laws, or the laws of the State of Nebraska, are
being violated; to receive signed complaints from any citizens within its
jurisdiction that any of the Municipal laws, or laws of the State of Nebraska,
are being violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner herein
provided; to cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in 10-125, it determines thatthe licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid
and subsisting ordinance or regulation duly enacted relating to alcoholic
liquors; and to collect for the benefit of the State of Nebraska and the
Municipality all license fees and occupation taxes as prescribed by law. (Ref.
53-134 RS Neb.)
§10-110   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OWNER OF PREMISES.
The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premise in violation of any Municipal Code section or Nebraska
statute. (Ref. 53-1,101 RS Neb.)
§10-111   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; EMPLOYER.
The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him personally. (Ref. 53-1,102 RS Neb.)
§10-112   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS; PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-
ONE (21) YEARS OF AGE.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell or make a gift of, any
alcoholic liquors, or to procure any such alcoholic liquors for any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or any other person who is mentally,
physically, or otherwise incompetent, whether due to natural disabilities, or
the prior consumption of alcoholic beverages. (Ref. 53-180 RS Neb.)
§10-113   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CREDIT SALES.
No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; provided nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the by-laws of any such club; and provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests. (Ref. 53-183 RS Neb.)
§10-114   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPIKING BEER.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol or permit any
person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premise of such
licensee. (Ref. 53-174 RS Neb.)
§10-115   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liqor contained in bottles, casks,
or other containers except in the original package. (Ref. 53-184 RS Neb.)
§10-116   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINOR'S PRESENCE.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of nineteen (19) years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said
establishment unless the said minor is accompanied by his parent or legal
guardian, and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate
control of, the said parent or legal guardian. (Ref. 53-147 RS Neb.)
§10-117   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their agents to sell
any alcoholic beverages within the Municipality except during the hours
provided herein:
HOURS OF SALE
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
Secular Days
Off Sale                                 6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
On Sale                                  6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
Sundays
Off Sale                                 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
On Sale                                  Noon to 2:00 A.M.
Beer and Wine
Secular Days
Off Sale                                 6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
On Sale                                  6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
Sundays
Off Sale                                 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
On Sale                                  Noon to 2:00 A.M.
 
Provided, that such limitations shall not apply after twelve (12:00) o'clock
Noon on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation holding a license
pursuant to section 53-124(5)(C) and (H) Reissue Revised Statues of Nebraska
1943.
No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed premises
for a period of time longer than fifteen (15) minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises. For
the purposes of this section, "on sale" shall be defined as alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment; "off sale" shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at
retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of the
licensed establishment.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed premises from
being open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section. (Ref. 53-179
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 394 11/14/91; 399, 12/10/91; 421, 1/11/96; 428,
3/14/96; 11/14/13)
§10-118   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SANITARY CONDITIONS.
It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premise
shall be subject to any health inspections the Governing Body or the Municipal
Police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liqor license. (Ref. 53-118 RS
Neb.)
§10-119   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HIRING MINORS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under the
age of nineteen (19) years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including
beer, to said licensee's customers. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§10-120   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years may sell or dispense or have
in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern
or in any other place including public streets, alleys, roads, highways, upon
property owed by the State of Nebraska or City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, or
inside any vehicle while in or on any other place including but not limited to
the public streets, alleys, roads, highways, or upon propert owned by the State
of Nebraska or the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, except that a person under
twenty-one (21) years of a may possess or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor in his or her permanent place of residence. (Ref. 53-186 RS Neb.)
§10-121   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MISREPRESENTATION BY ANY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF
TWENTY-ONE (21) YEARS.
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
represent that he or she is of the age of twenty-one (21) years for the purpose
of asking for, purchasing, or receiving any alcoholic beverages.
§10-122   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic liquors
which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly licensed to
sell same to such person under the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act; Providing, nothing herein shall prevent the possession of alcoholic liquor
for the personal use of the possessor, his family and guests, as long as the
quantity of alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought, shipped or caused
to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into the State for personal
use does not exceed one (1) gallon at any one (1) time or in excess of two (2)
gallons in any one (1) calendar month, nor prevent the making of wine, cider or
other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the
product thereof, by simple fermentation and without distillation, if it is made
solely for the use of the maker, his family and his guests; Provided further,
that nothing herein shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or
dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his
profession, or any hospital or institution caring for the sick and diseased
persons, from possessing any alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide
patients of such hospital or other institution; Provided further, that any drug
store employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors in
the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and Provided
further, that the possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this
Section; Provided further, that persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older
may carry beer from grocery stores when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor, persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older may handle beer
containers and beer in the course of their employment in grocery stores, and
persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older may remove and dispose of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of their employer and customers
in the course of their employment as waiters, waitresses, or busboys, by any
restaurant, club, hotel, or similar organization; and Provided further, that
persons who are nineteen (19) years old or older may seive or sell alcoholic
liquor in the course of their employment. (Ref. 53-102, 53-164.01, 53-175 RS
Neb.)
§10-123   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR
QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic violations may
take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the officer dangerous
to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise incapacitated, from any
public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an intoxicated person from
public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable effort to take such
intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such person in any hospital,
clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be necessary to
preserve life or to prevent injury. Such effort at placement shall be deemed
reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities or doctor which have
previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such individuals and
which regularly do accept such individuals. If such efforts are unsuccessful or
are not feasible, the officer may then place such intoxicated person in civil
protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall be used only as
long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no
circumstances longer than twenty-four (24) hours. The placement of such person
in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or jail at which
he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if
they can be located, or to such person designated by the person taken into
civil protective custody.
The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this Section shall be
deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and shall not be
criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an individual into
civil protective custody under this Section shall not be considered an arrest.
No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that the person has been
arrested or charged with a crime.
For purposes of this Section, public property shall mean any public right-of-
way, street, highway, alley, park, or other state, county, or municipally-owned
property.
For the purposes of this Section, quasi-public property shall mean and include
private or publicly-owned property utilized for proprietary or business uses
which invites patronage by the public or which invites public ingress and
egress. (Ref. 53-1,121 RS Neb.)
§10-124   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; INSPECTIONS.
It shall be the duty of the Governing Body to cause frequent inspections to be
made on the premises of all retail and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act or regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is
failing to observe in good faith the purposes of said Act, the license may be
suspended, cancelled, or revoked after the licensee has been given an
opportunity to be heard by the Governing Body. (Ref. 53-146 RS Neb.)
§10-125   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
Any five (5) residents of the Municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Governing Body stating that any retail or bottle club
licensee, subject to the jurisdiction of the Governing Body, has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Governing Body and shall be signed and sworn by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule,
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the Governing Body is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the fact alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten (10) days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve
notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the
particular charge in the complaint; Provided, that the complaint must in all
cases be disposed of by the Governing Body within thirty (30) days from the
date the complaint was filed by resolution thereof, said resolution shall be
deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission as provided by law. (Ref. 53-1,114 RS Neb.)
§10-126   LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING
RECOMMENDATIONS.
Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve applications and
deny licenses pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. The Governing Body
shall only consider the following licensing standards and criteria at the
hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a retail alcoholic liquor
license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic liquor, or for the
expansion or change in location of the premises, and for the purpose of
formulating a recommendation from the Governing Body to the Nebraska Liquor
Control Commission in accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act:
   a.   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area;
   b.   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
   c.   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
   d.   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body's zoning and land-use
policies;
   e.   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
   f.   The existence of a citizen's protest and similar evidence in support of
or in opposition to the application;
   g.   The existing population and projected growth within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body and within the area to be served;
   h.   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license, and the
distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such licenses;
   i.   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the neighborhood
or community where the proposed premises are located;
   j.   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated or
presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in section 53-101.01;
   k.   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with section
53-102;
   l.   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect against the
possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic liquor shall be
displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably secured;
   m.   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly provide the
service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
   n.   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management and
control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure that
the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and rules
and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
   o.   The background information of the applicant established by information
contained in the public records of the Commission and investigations conducted
by law enforcement agencies;
   p.   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as evidenced by
findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local governing
body, any other governmental unit, or any court of law;
   q.   Whether the applicant or the applicant's representatives suppressed any
fact or provided any inaccurate information to the commission or local
governing body or the employees of the commission in regard to the license
application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required to
cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local governing body;
   r.   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks, and
public institutions;
   s.   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed premises or
in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
   t.   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations, and municipal
ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever forfeited
bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a felony or
charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good
morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has forfeited bond to
appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or ordinance relating
to alcoholic liquor.
It shall be the applicant's duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this subsection. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, "applicant" shall be synonymous with "license." (Ref.
53-134 RS Neb.)
§10-127   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   A.   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. Section
53-134 shall be given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain
the date, time, and location of the hearing. Two (2) or more proceedings which
are legally or factually related may be heard and considered together unless
any party thereto makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the Governing Body that
prejudice would result there from.
   B.   Procedure. Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal
Attorney. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action.
Each witness may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by question
and answer.
The Governing Body or the applicant may order the hearing to be recorded by the
Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
The Governing Body may admit and give probative effect to evidence which
possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent individuals.
The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it appears incompetent,
irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any application
and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments and to cross-
examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such application, they
shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who shall notify the
Municipal Attorney of his/her representation prior to the start of the hearing.
The order of the proceeding is as follows:
      1.   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to the
Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
      2.   Presentation of evidence, witnesses, and arguments by applicant;
      3.   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed license;
      4.   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by Municipal
Attorney, Governing Body, or duly appointed agent;
      5.   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
      6.   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
      7.   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license.
      8.   Presentation of evidence by Municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
      9.   Cross-examination by applicant;
      10.   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by Municipality
administration and agent;
      11.   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the party filing
the application.
Any member of the Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney may question any
witness, call witnesses, or request information.
All witnesses shall be sworn.
The Governing Body may make further inquiry and investigation following the
hearing.
The Governing Body or the applicant may order the hearing to be recorded by the
Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Ref. 53-134 RS Neb.)
§10-128   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PINBALL MACHINES.
It shall be unlawful for any holder of a liquor license in the City ofNewman
Grove, Nebraska, to permit any pinball machines, slot machines or numbers games
on the premises, and any violation thereof shall be cause for the immediate
suspension of the license of the operator of said licensed premises.
§10-129   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CATERING LICENSES,
   (1)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under section 53-124(5) RS Neb. a craft brewery license, or a farm winery
license may obtain an annual catering license as prescribed in this section.
The catering license shall be issued for the same period and may be renewed in
the same manner as the retail license, craft brewery license, or farm winery
license.
   (2)   Any person desiring to obtain a catering license shall file with the
Commission:
      (a)   An application in triplicate original upon such forms as the
Commission prescribes; and
      (b)   A license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) payable to the
Commission, which fee shall be returned to the applicant if the application is
denied.
   (3)   (a)   When an application for a catering license is filed, the
Commission shall notify, by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested with postage prepaid:
         1.   The Clerk of the village in which such applicant is located; or
         2.   If the applicant is not located within a city or incorporated
village, the county clerk of the county in which such applicant is located.
      (b)   The Board of Trustees and the Commission shall process the
application in the same manner as provided in section 53-132 RS Neb.
   (4)   The Governing Body, with respect to catering licensees within its
liquor license jurisdiction as provided in section 53-132(5) RS Neb. may cancel
a catering license for cause for the remainder of the period for which such
catering license is issued. Any person whose catering license is canceled may
appeal to the District Court of the county in which the local governing body is
located.
   (5)   The Governing Body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
Governing Body as provided in section 53-132(5) RS Neb. The tax may not exceed
double the license fee to be paid under this section. (Ref. 53-124.12 RS Neb.)
§10-130   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OCCUPATION TAX.
For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is levied upon each
person, firm, partnership, association of persons, or corporation, who engage
in and who may engage in the manufacture, distribution or selling at retail of
alcoholic liquors within the Municipality. Such occupation tax for a Class C
license will be one (1) times the amount of the license fee established by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act and for all other licences (non-Class C) such
occupation tax will be one-half (1/2) times the amount of the license fees
established by the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and shall be due and payable on
or before the date of issuance or renewal of any license subject to such tax.
No reduction in occupation tax shall be made regardless of the time when the
application for license is made, or the license is issued. Such occupation tax,
or any part of it, shall not be refunded for any cause. (Ord. No. 480, 8/9/07)
Article 2. Peddlers and Hawkers, Itinerant Sales
§10-201   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; REGULATION.
To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods and
services, and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers, and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the Municipality, make application
for, and be issued a permit. Application for said permit shall be made to the
Municipal Clerk, and shall contain all the necessary information, and documents
required for the protection of the residents of the Municipality. Any person or
persons granted a peddler and hawker permit shall be subject to any fees,
occupation taxes, and other rules and regulations which the Governing Body
deems appropriate for the purposes stated herein. Any permit so granted shall
be subject to revocation for good and sufficient cause by the Municipal Police.
(Ref. 17-134, 17-525 RS Neb.)
§10-202   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesman, or peddler to solicit any
individual between the hours of six (6:00) o'clock P.M., and eight (8:00)
o'clock A.M., unless they have a previous appointment with the resident, or
residents, of the premise solicited. It shall be unlawful at any hour for a
solicitor, salesman, or peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his
person at all times. (Ref. 17-134 RS Neb.)
§10-203   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; EXCEPTIONS.
Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, or persons, selling
produce raised within the county, or to wholesale salesmen soliciting merchants
directly, or to a representative of a non-profit or charity organization
soliciting on behalf of that organization.
§10-204   ITINERANT SALES; DEFINITION.
A transient merchant, itinerant merchant, or itinerant vendor is defined as any
person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee,
and whether a resident of the Municipality or not, who engages temporarily
within the Municipality in the business of selling and delivering goods, wares,
and merchandise or taking orders for goods or merchandise, to or at homes,
apartments, or other residential premises in the Municipality. (Ref. 17-134,
75-323 RS Neb.)
§10-205   ITINERANT SALES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
It shall be unlawful for an itinerant vendor to engage in such business within
the Municipality without first obtaining a license therefor. It shall be
unlawful for any farmer, truck grower, or others who produce, hawk or peddle
products of the farm, fruit or other staples of food, or who peddle, sell, or
offer to sell any commodity or article of commerce or trade to park their
conveyances or erect a place of business for the purpose of selling said
products upon any street within the Business District. (Ref. 17-134, 75-323
thru 75-335 RS Neb.)
§10-206   ITINERANT SALES; APPLICATION.
Applicants for a license shall file a written sworn application signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the
president if a corporation, with the Municipal Clerk, showing:
   1.   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed
that it will be carried on in the Municipality; the local address or addresses
of such person or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address
or addresses of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person or
persons will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent, or otherwise); the
name and address of the person, firm, or corporation for whose account the
business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation, under the law of
what state the same is incorporated.
   2.   The place or places in the Municipality where it is proposed to carry
on applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed
that such business shall be conducted.
   3.   A statement of the nature of merchandise to be sold or offered for sale
by the applicant.
   4.   A brief statement of the nature of the advertising done or proposed to
be done in order to attract customers.
   5.   Credentials from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative.
   6.   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the Municipal Clerk
may deem proper.
(Ref. 17-134, RS Neb.)
§10-207   ITINERANT SALES; FEE.
The applicant shall pay a license fee of thirty-five ($35.00) to cover the cost
of processing the application and issuing the license.
§10-208   ITINERANT SALES; BOND.
Before any license shall be issued for engaging in an itinerant business, such
applicant shall file with the Municipal Clerk a bond running to the
Municipality in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body and executed by
the applicant as principal, and one (1) corporate surety, or two (2) individual
sureties upon whom service of process may be had in the County, such bond to be
approved by the Municipal Attorney, conditioned that such applicant shall
comply fully with all the provisions of this Code, and the statutes of the
State of Nebraska, regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares, and
merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any
violation of this Code or the Statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him by any person for damage
growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person
transacting business with such applicant, either at the time of making the sale
or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever with reference to the
merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in the
name of the Municipality to the use of the aggrieved person. Nothing herein
shall be construed to apply to any itinerant vender required to file a bond
under the provisions of the statutes of the State of Nebraska as a prerequisite
of doing business within the State. (Ref. 17-134, 75-329 RS Neb.)
§10-209   ITINERANT SALES; APPOINTMENT OF AGENT.
Before any license shall be issued, such applicant shall file with the
Municipal Clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the Municipal Clerk, or
the person performing the duties of such position, his true and lawful agent
with full power and authority to acknowledge seivice of notice or process in
respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted
under such license.
Immediately upon being served with process, the Municipal Clerk shall send to
the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of such
process. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any itinerant vendor
required to appoint a State Official as an agent for the purpose of receiving
service of process as a prerequisite for doing business within the State. (Ref.
17-134, 75-325 RS Neb.)
§10-210   ITINERANT SALES; LICENSE EXPIRATION.
All licenses issued shall expire one hundred eighty (180) days after the date
of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein. (Ref. 17-134, RS
Neb.)
§10-211   ITINERANT SALES; LICENSE REVOCATION.
The licenses issued may be revoked by the Governing Body after notice and a
hearing, for any of the following causes:
   1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for a license.
   2.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, or merchandise.
   3.   Any violation of this Article.
   4.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude.
   5.   Conducting the business licensed under this Article in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace
to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
Notice of a hearing for the revocation of a license shall be given in writing,
setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place
of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by registered mail, postage prepaid,
to the licensee, at his last known address, at least five (5) days prior to the
date set for the hearing. (Ref. 17-134 RS Neb.)
§10-212   ITINERANT SALES; APPEAL.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Municipal Clerk in regard to the
denial of an application for a license or in connection with the revocation of
a license, shall have the right to appeal to the Governing Body. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Governing Body within fourteen (14) days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The
Governing Body shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and
notice shall be given to such person by registered mail, postage prepaid, at
his last known address. The order of the Governing Body on such appeal shall be
final. (Ref. 17-134, RS Neb.)
§10-213   ITINERANT SALES; POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to examine all places of business
and persons subject to the provisions of this Article and to enforce the
provisions herein against any person found to be violating the same. (Ref. 17-
134, 75-334 RS Neb.)
Article 3. Franchises
§10-301   FRANCHISE; NATURAL GAS.
   (A)   The Governing Body has granted to Aquila, Inc. d/b/a Aquila Networks
the authority to construct, maintain, and operate a gas transmission, and
distribution system within the Municipality. The franchise is incorporated
herein by reference and actual details of the agreement, and the present gas
rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk's office. (Ref.
17-528.02 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord No. 473, 12/15/05)
   (B)   The city establishes a franchise fee on every natural gas company and
energy provider. The fee is incorporated herein by reference and actual details
of the fee are available at the Municipal Clerk's Office. (Ord No. 474, 12/15/
05)
§10-302   FRANCHISE; TELEPHONE.
The Governing Body has granted to the General Telephone Company the authority
to maintain, and operate a telephone system within the Municipality. Actual
details of the agreement, and the present telephone rates, charges, and fees
are available at the Municipal Clerk's office. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§10-303   FRANCHISE; ELECTRICITY.
The Governing Body has granted to the Loup River Public Power District the
authority to maintain and operate the light and power system in the
Municipality for the purpose of furnishing electric energy to the Municipality,
and fixing the charges for such services. Actual details of the agreement and
the present electrical rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal
Clerk's office. (Ref. 17-528.03 RS Neb.)
§10-304   FRANCHISE; CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM.
   (1)   The Governing Body has granted to the Galaxy Telecom, L.P. the
authority to maintain, and operate a cable television system in the
Municipality. Actual details of the agreement and the charges, rates, and fees
are available at the Municipal Clerk's office.
   (2)   The City, by Resolution 2014-02, approves transfer of the cable
television franchise to Eagle Communications. (Ref. 18-2201 et seq. RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 352, 6/18/86) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 431, 4/11/96; 451, 6/14/01)
(Amended by Res. Nos. 2014-02, 2/13/14; 2016-03, 5/12/16)
§10-305   FRANCHISE; FIBER OPTIC COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.  
The Governing Body has granted to Stealth Broadband, the authority to
construct, operate, and maintain a fiber optic communication system in the
Municipality. Actual details of the agreement and the charges, rates, and fees
are available at the Municipal Clerk's office. (Ord. No. 799, 7/13/17)
Article 4. Junk Yards
§10-401   DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   JUNK DEALER. The term "junk dealer" as used in this Code is hereby defined
as meaning, and shall include any person engaged in the business of buying,
selling, receiving, collecting or dealing in metal scraps, scrap iron, metals
of any kind and in any form, bottles, rages and used tires; the dismantling or
taking apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of
automobiles; the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of
automobile bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts
thereof kept for salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; or the
storage of iron, metals or junk.
   JUNK COLLECTOR. The term "junk collector" shall be construed to mean any
person going from place to place, or house to house, collecting or buying iron,
copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles, or old paper, and selling the
same to a junk dealer.
   JUNK YARD. The term "junk yard" as used in this Code is hereby defined as
meaning, and shall include any place in the Municipality where or from which
any person shall conduct, engage in, or carry on the business of junk dealer as
herein defined.
   JUNK. The term "junk" as used in this Code shall include scrap metals, scrap
materials, whether they are liquids, solids, or gases, branches of trees, and
dismantled or wrecked automobiles, tractors, and machinery or parts thereof.
§10-402   JUNK YARD; REGULATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate, or hold open for public
use any junk yard as herein defined without first obtaining a license to do so
from the Municipality. Application for a license to own, operate, or hold open
for public use any junk yard shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk
and shall require such information and documents, or copies thereof, that the
Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the said
application. Upon approval of the application, the Municipal Clerk shall issue
the license upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the Governing Body.
The licensee shall then be subject to any occupation taxes. bond requirements,
and other rules and regulations which the Governing Body may determine to be
beneficial to the Municipality. Any such bond shall be set by resolution of the
Governing Body and will be conditioned upon the faithful observance of the
provisions of this Code. The bond shall be held for the benefit of any person
who may suffer damage by the improper management of the said junk yard. (Ref.
69-202 RS Neb.)
§10-403   JUNK YARD; OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
The owner of the premise upon which a junk yard is located shall be equally
responsible with the operator, director, or employee thereof to see that the
provisions of this Code will not be violated. In the event the provisions of
this Code are violated, he shall be equally liable with the operator, director,
or employee for the said violation of the provisions herein.
§10-404   JUNK YARD; INSPECTIONS.
The Municipal Police, health officials, and the Governing Body shall have the
power and authority to inspect and examine the premise on which a junk yard is
located; Provided, that the said inspection is at a reasonable time. Upon a
finding that the owner, operator, director, or employee has allowed a health or
safety hazard to develop, the Governing Body shall give written notice to the
owner to remove the said health hazard within thirty (30) days. (Ref. 69-204 RS
Neb.)
§10-405   JUNK YARD; NUISANCE.
Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not operated in
the manner herein provided. shall be deemed to be a public nuisance after the
said thirty (30) day period of grace. The Governing Body shall then request the
Municipal Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director, or employee of
the said nuisance for violation of the provisions of this Article. (Ref. 18-
1720 RS Neb.)
§10-406   JUNK YARD; RECORDS.
Any person who shall be engaged in the junk business shall keep a book which
shall be legibly written in ink at the time of any purchase of goods or
articles at the time the same was received and the name, residence, and
description of the person doing the selling. The said book, as well as the
article purchased, shall be at all reasonable times subject to the inspection
of the Governing Body or any member of the Municipal Police. (Ref. 69-204 RS
Neb.)
§10-407   JUNK YARD; PREMISE.
Any area or parcel of land used as a junk yard shall not have more than two (2)
entrances and two (2) exits each of which shall not exceed fifteen (15') feet
in width at the perimeter of the premise. Such premise or parcel of land shall
be enclosed with either a solid nontransparent wall or fence or link-weave
steel wire, or combination thereof, with a minimum height of seven (7') feet
from the ground level, except for entrances and exits. The fence shall not
contain any poster or advertising of any kind except one (1) sign of the
licensee not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet.
§10-408   YARD; RODENTS.
Any person who owns, operates, directs, or is employed by a junk yard shall
make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats, mice, and other
harmful rodents frequenting the said junk yard. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Stockyards
§10-501   STOCKYARD; USE PERMIT.
The Mayor and City Council of Newman Grove, Nebraska, hereby grant a Special
Use Permit for a stockyard under Section 2, Parts 26c, Page 59, "1-2" Heavy
Industrial District, City of Newman Grove Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance for
the following described tract of land:
Lots 3 and 4, Block Twenty-two (22), of Subdivision of Out Lot 5, Railroad
Addition to Newman Grove, Madison County, Nebraska.
This Special Use Permit shall be subject to the following conditions:
   1.   Use permit be restricted to one (1) day a week operation, Monday
through Friday. If extension requested, Council will hold a hearing to consider
same.
   2.   Cleaning up of all solid waste be done on daily basis anD if not
carried out, permit shall be withdrawn.
   3.   Collection hours to be 6:00 AM. until 6:00 P.M.
That the above Special Use Permit shall be entered and shown on the Official
Zoning Map of Newman Grove, Nebraska, previously adopted by reference, and said
Zoning Map is hereby reincorporated as a part of the City of Newman Grove,
Nebraska Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance as amended.
Article 6. Occupation Taxes
§10-601   OCCUPATION TAX; AMOUNTS.
For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied on the
following businesses:
 
Alcoholic Beverages (on and off sale), per year $600.00
Beer only (on and off sale), per year           100.00
Alcoholic Beverages (off sale), per year        100.00
Tobacco Vendors, per year                       10.00
Coin Operated Amusement Machines, per year      10.00
Fire Insurance Companies, per year              5.00
 
(Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§10-602   OCCUPATION TAX; FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund. (Ref. 35-106 RS Neb.)
§10-603   OCCUPATION TAX; COLLECTION DATE.
All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on the first (1st) day of August
of each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon
the payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said
Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying
the said tax, and the amount paid. The revenue collected shall then be
immediately deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The
Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over
to him. All forms, and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate.
One (1) copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction. (Ref. 17-525
RS Neb.)
§10-604   OCCUPATION TAX; CERTIFICATES.
The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
Occupation Tax Certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person, and business that paid the said tax. The
Occupation Tax Certificate shall shall then be displayed in a prominent place.
or carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§10-605   OCCUPATION TAX; FAILURE TO PAY.
If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the occupation
taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
Municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of one (1%) per cent per month
until paid. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§10-606   OCCUPATION TAX; GAME OF CHANCE AND/OR LOTTERIES.
   (1)   For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall
apply:
      (a)   The phrase "games of chance and/or lotteries" shall mean those
forms of gambling authorized by the State of Nebraska pursuant to Article III.
Section 24 of the Constitution of the State of Nebraska.
      (b)   The phrase "gambling device" shall mean any and all machines or
devices used by a person engaged in the occupation of conducting games of
chance and/or lotteries.
      (c)   The phrase "person engaged in the occupation of conducting games of
chance and/or lotteries" shall mean any person who operates, owns or is the
lessee of a place of business where any game of chance and/or lottery activity
is conducted, whether or not any other type of business is conducted on the
premises; or, any person who either directly controls or manages the games of
chance and/or lotteries, or owns any machine or device used to engage in the
occupation of games of chance and/or lotteries, but does not sell, lease or
deliver possession or custody of such a device to other persons.
      (d)   The word "distributor" shall mean any person who engages in the
business of selling, leasing, or delivering possession or custody of gambling
devices for consideration to a person engaged in the occupation of conducting
games of chance and/or lotteries.
   (2)   Occupation tax. An occupation tax is hereby imposed on each person
engaged in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the City. Every person conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the City shall pay the tax in the amount and manner specified in
paragraph 3.
   (3)   Amount of occupation tax for persons engaged in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries. The occupation tax for each person
engaging in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the City shall be five percent of the gross receipts received by said
person in each quarter of a calendar year.
   (4)   Amount of occupation tax for distributor. The occupation tax for
engaging in the occupation of distributing gambling devices within the City
shall be five percent (5%) of the gross receipts received by a distributor in
each quarter of a calendar year.
   (5)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
occupation of conducting games of chance or lottery activities without first
obtaining a license to do so.
   (6)   License Application. Every person desiring a license required by the
provisions of this Article shall make application to the Municipal Clerk of the
City of Newman Grove, Nebraska. Accompanying the application shall be:
      (a)   A sworn statement by each designated supervising member that such
member will be responsible for compliance with rules and regulations for each
occasion of games of chance and/or lotteries which he supervises.
      (b)   A sworn statement by the member designated as responsible for the
proper utilization of gross receipts that no commission, fee, rent, seller
profits, compensation, reward or recompense will be paid to any person or
organization not sanctioned by the laws of the State of Nebraska and the City
of Newman Grove, Nebraska, and that all profits will be spent for a lawful
purpose.
   (7)   Display of license. Every license issued under the provisions of this
Article shall be conspicuously displayed at the place when the game of chance
and/or lottery activity is conducted at all times during the conduct thereof.
   (8)   License Fee. The license fee for engaging in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries within the City shall be ten dollars
($10.00) for each location wherein such activity is conducted.
   (9)   Exemption. Nonprofit organizations that desire to participate in games
of chance and/or lotteries, that are in compliance with the Small Lotteries and
Raffles Act of the State of Nebraska, are exempt from the provisions of this
Article. (Ord. No. 386, 12/13/90)
Article 7. Natural Gas Rate Increase Procedure
§10-701   RATES; REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
The FRANCHISEE shall at all times be subject to all rights, power and authority
now or hereafter possessed by the City of Newman Grove to regulate and control
and direct the rates and tariffs charged for natural gas service in the City.
§10-702   RATE SCHEDULES.
   (1)   FRANCHISEE shall provide to the City for informational purposes,
copies of all rate schedules and the requirements for service under such
schedule within the City. It shall also show separately the FRANCHISEE'S cost
and the purchase gas cost. The FRANCHISEE'S cost shall exclude all gas supply
costs and gas supply cost adjustments. Gas supply costs and gas supply cost
adjustments shall be collected solely through the PGA rate.
   (2)   Rate Schedule, Monthly Charge; Heat Value, Basis Of Adjustment;
Penalty for Delinquency; Adjustment for Cost of Purchased Gas and Taxes:
Grantee, its successors or assigns, shall file and make effective initially a
schedule of rates for gas service and shall furnish gas at the schedule of
rates hereafter set forth or at such other reasonable rates as may be hereafter
established from time to time under the Nebraska Municipal Natural Gas
Regulation Act, sections 19-4601 et seq. RS Neb.
      (a)   Firm Gas Service Rates.
         1.   Availability. These rates are available only to domestic and
commercial customers whose maximum requirements for natural gas are less than
one hundred thousand (100,000) cubic feet per day. Grantee shall not be
required to serve any customer at the following rates whose requirements amount
to one hundred thousand (100,000) cubic feet or more per day. Grantee may
negotiate price and other contract terms with customers whose natural gas
requirements exceed fifty thousand (50,000) cubic feet per day.
         2.   Residential Customers.
            Monthly Customer Charge   $8.25
            Rate per Therm .............. $.1153170
         3.   Commercial Customers.
            Monthly Customer Charge   $13.25
            Rate per Therm .............. $.1567016
         4.   The foregoing rates apply only when bills are paid on or before
twenty (20) days after the monthly billing date. When not so paid, a one
percent (1%) per month late fee will apply on the unpaid amount.
         5.   The above and foregoing rate shall be understood to be based upon
natural gas of the British Thermal Unit (BTU) heating value of 1,000 BTUs per
cubic foot of gas. If in any monthly period the average heating value of gas
sold and delivered to the customers shall vary from 1,000 BTUs, then the
volumes of gas billed to the customers during that month shall be multiplied by
the factor of average hearing value in BTUs divided by 1,000 to adjust for the
variance.
         6.   Turn-On and Reconnect Fee. In addition to the other rates set
forth in this section, Grantee may charge a twenty-six ($26.00) dollar fee to
initiate service ("turn-on fee") for each customer account and a thirty
($30.00) dollar fee ("reconnect fee") to reconnect service that has been
discontinued or terminated for nonpayment.
      (b)   Adjustment for Cost of Purchased Gas.
         1.   In addition to the Firm Gas Service Rates set forth in subsection
2(a) above, a separate charge per Therm may be made for the monthly cost of
purchased gas in the Purchased Gas Cost Adjustment, if the Grantee (or any
predecessor of Grantee) has properly filed a natural gas supply-cost-adjustment
rate schedule pursuant to section 19-4609(1) RS Neb. Such Purchased Gas Cost
Adjustment shall be computed monthly pursuant to the natural gas supply-cost-
adjustment rate schedule filed by the Grantee (or any predecessor of Grantee)
pursuant to section 19-4609(1) RS Neb.
         2.   Any refund including interest thereon, if any, received by the
Company from its supplier in respect of increased rates paid by Grantee subject
to refund and applicable to natural gas purchased on a firm supply basis for
resale in Rate Area Three shall be refunded to its gas customers in the form of
credits on such customers' bills, or in cash, to the extent that such increased
rates paid by the Company were passed on to such firm gas customers.
      (c)   Adjustment for Taxes. If, after the effective date of subsection
(2) of this section, the business of Grantee in this Rate Area Three
Municipality shall be subjected to any taxes measured by its gross revenues
from the operation of such business or the volume of such business or
constituting a fee for carrying on such business, or in the event that (a) the
rate of any such tax or (b) the amount of any such fee shall be increased after
the effective date of subsection (2) of this section, the gas distribution
company shall be entitled to increase its charges under the aforesaid rates so
as to offset such imposition or impositions or such increase.
      (d)   General Rate Adjustment. The above provided for cost of purchased
gas and tax adjustments are apart from and shall not in any manner limit or
abridge either Grantee's right to request or the Mayor and City Council's
authority to grant general rate adjustments increasing or decreasing such
rates.
      (e)   Interruptible Gas Service Rate.
         1.   Availability. This rate is available only on a contract basis to
commercial or industrial customers whose use of natural gas is subject to
interruption and periods of curtailment for reasons including but not limited
to protecting the service of Grantee's firm gas users.
         2.   Rate. The rate of interruptible gas service shall be such rate as
may be mutually agreed upon between the customer and that gas service company.
      (f)   Environmental Costs.
         1.   Grantee may defer expenses reasonably incurred after December 1,
1999, as a result of monitoring, testing, clean-up, and the cost of reasonable
efforts made by Grantee to recover remediation costs (hereinafter referred to
generally as "manufactured gas plant" costs), if any, at the five manufactured
gas plant sites allocated to Rate Area Three. No carrying costs will be
calculated on any such balance of deferred manufactured gas plant costs. At the
time of its next general rate case, Grantee may request recovery of any
deferred manufactured gas plant costs and, if recovery is sought, must
demonstrate in its rate application or sixty (60) days prior to the deadline
for filing the Municipal Report that the manufactured gas plant costs were
prudently incurred and reasonable, and that Grantee made reasonable efforts to
recover remediation costs from potentially responsible third parties (which may
include, but are not limited to, Grantee's predecessors in interest).
         2.   In any future rate application, Grantee will reduce any deferred
manufactured gas plant costs by the proportional amount of manufactured gas
plant costs previously recovered (i.e.,
$62,846 per year from December 1, 1999) from Rate Area Three as a credit to the
deferred expenses allocated to Rate Area Three. Issues as to whether the
deferred remediation costs were prudently incurred and reasonable; and whether
the length of the amortization period for "past" manufactured gas plant costs
requested by Grantee for recovering any such deferred remediation expenses is
reasonable will be determined in the next rate case following the incurrence of
such deferred manufactured gas plant costs.
         3.   Seventy-five percent (75%) of any funds (or the value of any
other benefits) recovered from third parties by or on behalf of Grantee which
are attributable to the remediation of any or all of the five manufactured gas
plant sites allocated to Rate Area three shall be credited to the deferred
account. Grantee may keep twenty-five percent (25%) of any funds (or the value
of other benefits) recovered from third parties.
      (g)   General Terms and Conditions. The general terms and conditions and
associated Rate Schedule Tariff Sheets applicable to the natural gas service
subject to the Municipal Natural Gas Regulation Act as provided for under
subsection (2) of this section will be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk.
The General Terms and Conditions and associated Rate Schedule Tariff Sheets may
be changed from time to time by Grantee unless contrary provision is made by an
ordinance adopted in the course of a future rate proceeding.
      (h)   Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. The Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law, which were made a part of the official record at an Area
Rate Hearing, are hereby adopted.
(Amended by Ord. No. 446, 2/10/00)
§10-703   REFUND.
Any refund including interest thereon, if any, received by the FRANCHISEE from
its supplier related to increased rates paid by the FRANCHISEE subject to
refund and applicable to natural gas purchased for resale within the City shall
be passed on to the customers being served by an appropriate adjustment shown
as a credit on subsequent bills during a period selected by the FRANCHISEE, not
to exceed twelve (12) months, or by a single cash refund at the FRANCHISEE'S
OPTION within three (3) months from the date the FRANCHISEE received the
refund.
§10-704   ADJUSTMENT FOR PURCHASED GAS COST.
The purchased gas cost prescribed in the foregoing rate schedules shall reflect
all purchased gas costs and purchased gas adjustments (PGA's) incurred by the
FRANCHISEE for resale in the City. The goals of the PGA are as follows:
   1.   To allow the FRANCHISEE to recover all purchased gas costs.
   2.   To prevent a continuing over or under collection of purchased gas
costs.
   3.   To provide an equitable method of returning to the ratepayers any over-
collected purchased gas costs and refunds plus interest received by the
FRANCHISEE from its suppliers.
   4.   To provide an equitable method of recovering from the ratepayers any
under-collected purchased gas costs.
In the event the rates authorized to be be charged the FRANCHISEE for any
natural gas purchased for resale within the City are increased or decreased,
either temporarily or permanently, the purchased gas cost portion of the retail
gas rates in effect may be increased or shall be decreased correspondingly to
reflect the change in the cost of purchased gas. FRANCHISEE may change the
purchased gas cost portion of the retail gas rates by filing documentation
detailing the change with the City Clerk.
On each October thereafter during the FRANCHISE term, FRANCHISEE shall file a
"Cost of Purchased Gas Reconciliation" with the City. The filing will compare
the net cost of gas purchased with actual billed revenue arising from the
purchased gas cost portion of the retail rates and shall apply to the twelve
(12) month period ending the immediately preceding August 31st. The filing will
specify a reconciliation rate adjustment resulting from any over or under
recovered gas costs. Such adjustment shall be made effective as of the
following December 1.
OTHER RATE CHANGES. In the event the FRANCHISEE desires to change its rates for
firm natural gas service within the City other than to reflect an adjustment
for purchased gas cost, the FRANCHISEE will present to the City copies of
present and proposed rate schedules and information supporting the proposed
rates to be charged for firm natural gas service within the City. The rate
schedules and information submitted with the rate schedules shall be referred
to as the Rate Filing. Any such Rate Filing shall be deemed filed upon receipt
of the same by the City Clerk. A filing fee in the amount of three hundred
($300.00) dollars shall be paid to the City with the Rate Filing. Such fee will
be considered as an operating cost of the FRANCHISEE.
Should the FRANCHISEE, as a result of legislative action, be assessed during
the term of this FRANCHISE by any agency of the State of Nebraska for the
purpose of providing rate assistance to the City, the filing fees shall be
reduced by the amount of the assessment available to the City.
If the proposed rates sought by the FRANCHISEE in its Rate Filing have not been
passed on final reading by the City Council within ninety (90) days after it
was filed, the proposed rates shall be put into effect as interim rates and
shall be collected subject to refund pursuant to Section 18-415 of the Nebraska
Revised Statutes, 1943, as the same may be amended from time to time. Such
interim rates shall remain in effect pending final determination by the City,
which determination shall be made within one hundred eighty (180) days after
the Rate Filing is filed, or in the event of litigation, final rate
determination by the Courts. Proposed increased rates shall become final and no
longer subject to refund if the City Council has not taken final action within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the Rate Filing is filed.
The rates proposed to be charged for firm natural gas service within the CITY
shall be based upon the FRANCHISEE's cost of providing service in that part of
the FRANCHISEE's service area which has a common wholesale natural gas supplier
and includes the CITY. The period for which the costs of service is to be
recognized is to be projected twelve (12) month period commencing not later
than the proposed effective date of the increase. The cost of service shall be
determined in a manner consistent with regulated public utility practices and
shall include (1) appropriate costs as defined and set forth in the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission Uniform System of Accounts Prescribed for Natural
Gas Companies FERC Accounts, and (2) a reasonable return on the FRANCHISEE's
rate base.
In determining a reasonable return, a rate (percentage) shall be employed that
is representative of the FRANCHISEE's cost of debt, preferred stock, and common
equity capital. The rate base shall consist of the applicable net investment in
utility plant (as defined in the FERC Accounts), allowance for working capital,
and such other items as may reasonably be included; less such investment as
may, unless otherwise prevented by law, be attributed to other than investor
capital.
The FRANCHISEE's appropriate costs and items of rate base shall include
allocated or apportioned expenses and rate base items, when such allocations or
apportionments are reasonably representative of assigned common costs and arise
from the manner in which the FRANCHISEE's operations are conducted or from an
avoidance of excessive and costly financial record keeping.
Rate Filings, not including changes in the purchased gas cost, shall be limited
to a maximum of one (1) in any twelve (12) calendar month period.
§10-705   INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
FRANCHISEE shall provide, in its Rate Filing, three (3) copies of its most
recent annual report to the stockholders. In addition three (3) copies of the
following information shall, on request by CITY, be provided by the FRANCHISEE:
   A.   A financial summary showing aggregate rate base, operating revenues,
operating expenses, dollar return on rate base, and rate of return on rate
base:
      1.   Actual for the most recent calendar year preceding the date of
submission.
      2.   For the projected twelve (12) month period using natural gas rates
currently in effect.
      3.   For the projected twelve (12) month period using the proposed
natural gas rates.
   B.   Rate base schedules, on an original cost basis, showing for the most
recent twelve (12) month period available and for the projected twelve (12)
month period:
      1.   For utility plant and accumulated depreciation and amortization
components - the beginning and end of period balances by account, explanations
of changes in balances during the period, and the calculated rate base amounts.
      2.   For cash working capital - in manner in which rate base amounts are
calculated.
      3.   For other rate base components - beginning and end of period
amounts, explanations of changes in balances during the period, and calculated
rate base amounts.
      4.   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in 1, 2,
and 3 above.
   C.   Operating expense schedules, showing:
      1.   Expenses by FERC accounts or their equivalent for the most recent
calendar year.
      2.   Explanation and calculations of allocated amounts included in 1.
      3.   Expenses by FERC accounts or their equivalent for the projected
twelve (12) month period.
      4.   Explanation of methods employed to develop projected expenses.
      5.   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in 3.
   D.   Rate of return/cost of capital schedules showing debt, preferred stock,
and common equity amounts at the beginning and end of the projected twelve (12)
month period, explanations of changes during the period, and methods used to
calculate or otherwise determine cost of capital.
      1.   Table showing the requested and approved rate of return on rate base
and common equity on all cases filed by FRANCHISEE during the previous five (5)
years.
   E.   Operating revenue schedules, showing:
      1.   Number of customers, volume of sales, and operating revenue by
customer classes for the most recent calendar year and for the projected twelve
(12) month period.
      2.   Explanation of methods employed to determine data in 1.
      3.   Operating revenues by rate schedules for the projected twelve (12)
month period using current rates.
      4.   Detailed rates and calculations for 3.
   F.   Informational Schedules showing for the CI'IY:
      1.   Cost of dfstribution plant.
      2.   Number of customers, volume of sales, and operating revenue by
customer classes for the most recent calendar year.
      3.   FRANCHISE payment paid for the most recent calendar year and the
filing fee for the instant rate-change request.
§10-706   NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
FRANCHISEE shall make changes in its rates, other than to reflect an adjustment
for purchased gas cost, by by filing a Rate Filing prescribed with the City
Clerk at least ninety (90) days prior to the proposed effective date of the
requested change. Notice of the filing shall be given within thirty (30) days
of the filing by placing a notice to the public of the proposed change in a
newspaper having general circulation in the CITY. However, notwithstanding the
above, instead of the publication of newspaper notice contemplated above,
FRANCHISEE may provide notice to the public by mailing such notice by United
States mail, postage prepaid, to the billing address of each directly affected
customer, or by including the notice in such customer's bill in a conspicuous
form. By either method, publication or mailing, the notice must be in
substantially the following form:
NOTICE OF RATE INCREASE
Minnegasco, Inc., proposes to increase your rates by (amount of total annual
increase requested) dollars per year, which is an overall increase of
(percentage of increase over all revenues during the applicable test year) per
cent. Further information may be obtained from (name and address of utility
official) or the application on file with the City Clerk.
An affidavit signed by an official of FRANCHISEE and describing the method of
publication or mailing of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk within
sixty (60) days of filing a Rate Filing.
§10-707   PROVIDING OFGENERAL INFORMATION.
The FRANCHISEE shall provide the CITY, at the request of CITY, on a regular
continuing basis, within thirty (30) days of publication, copies of documents.
information and data listed below for the FRANCHISEE or its parent company as
applicable.
Annual Report to Stockholders
Quarterly Report to Stockholders
Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K, as the same may be changed from
time to time.
Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-Q. as the same may be changed from
time to time.
Prospectus for Debt Securities to be Issued.
Prospectus for Equity Securities to be Issued.
Distribution System Map of the CITY.
§10-708   VALIDITY OF ARTICLE.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase of portion of this Article
shall for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
§10-709   NATURAL GAS; RATE FILING FEE.
The Municipality shall charge and collect a filing fee from Natural Gas
Companies for a rate filing. The fee shall be three hundred ($300.00) dollars.
Chapter 11
MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Article 1. Zoning and Subdivision Regulations
§11-101   ZONING AND. SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (1)   The Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations for the City, dated
March 2003, and prepared by the Madison County Joint Planning Department with
input from RDG Crose Gardner Shukert for the City, be and the same is hereby
adopted as the official Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations of the
City.
   (2)   Three (3) copies of the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations
are on file and shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk and shall be
available to the public. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 460, 4/1/03; Am. Ord. Nos. 475,
4/13/06; 486, 3/13/08; 493, 2/19/09; 506, 4/12/12; 510, 9/13/12)
§11-102   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (1)   The Official Zoning Map for the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, dated
January 2005, and prepared by the Madison County Joint Planning Department for
the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska, be and the same is hereby adopted as the
Official Zoning Map of the City of Newman Grove, Nebraska.
   (2)   Three (3) copies of the Official Zoning Map of the City of Newman
Grove, Nebraska are on file and shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
and shall be available to the public. (Ord. No. 469, 3/10/05)
Chapter 12
PENAL PROVISION
Article 1. Generally
§12-101   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Municipal code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
five hundred ($500.00) dollars. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every twenty- four (24) hours of failure to comply with the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in
Chapter 9 and
Chapter 4 of this code, the City may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and
abate the same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ord. No. 523, 6/8/17).
