CITY OF OSHKOSH, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through local ordinance 484, passed 4-10-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Oshkosh
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Oshkosh,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and the adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Garden County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended, or its application to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words which are necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified by a
subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed or
modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto. No suit, proceedings, right,
liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted, created, given, secured or
accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal shall in any way be
affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered
as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force unless it is otherwise
expressly provided. When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or
provision is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or that person’s agents or servants, who violates any of
the provisions of this municipal code, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
   (B)   The offense may be paid waiver as follows: first offense, $50; and
second offense, $100 plus costs, at the office of the County Clerk/Magistrate
office.
   (C)   Any violation after the second offense is not waiverable and shall
require an appearance in the county court.
   (D)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1.19) (Ord. 482, passed 10-10-2024)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
   
11.02   City limits
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city and kept in the office of the City
Clerk a common seal of the corporation having engraved thereon the words “City
of Oshkosh, Garden County, Nebraska, Seal.”
   (B)   The City Clerk shall affix an impression of the official seal to all
licenses, ordinances and other papers issued by order of the Mayor and City
Council to be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.1)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see Neb. RS 17-502
   Seal to be engraved or ink, see Neb. RS 64-118
§ 11.02 CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this code, the terms CITY LIMITS, CORPORATE LIMITS
OF THE CITY and all similar terms shall mean the area included within the
boundaries of the original Town of Oshkosh plus all other areas added by
annexation or otherwise.
   (B)   There shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk one or more maps
which shall show all areas which are located within the city limits. The map or
maps shall be kept available for public inspection during regular business
hours at the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FORMS OF LEGISLATION
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.19   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Cross-reference:
   City Council meetings, see
Chapter 31
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act, Neb. RS
32-101 through 32-1551. The Mayor shall take office on the date of the first
regular meeting of the City Council held in December following the statewide
general election. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a
majority vote of the City Council or a majority vote of all the elected members
of the City Council if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to the absence, vacancy or abstention
of one or more City Council members.
         (b)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (3)   The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city and shall take care that the ordinances of the
city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim.
      (1)   If the Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract or claim, he or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective.
      (2)   If the Mayor vetoes the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract or any item or items of appropriation or claims, he or she shall
return it to the City Council stating that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may
issue the veto at the meeting at which the measure passed or within seven
calendar days after the meeting. If the Mayor issues the veto after the
meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City Clerk of the veto in writing. The
Clerk shall notify the City Council in writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order,
bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the
allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or her veto
by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council. If the Mayor neglects or
refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the
measure within the time required by this section, the measure shall become
effective without his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items of
any appropriation bill or any claims bill and approve the remainder thereof,
and the item or items vetoed may be passed by the Council over the veto as in
other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such disability is removed, or
in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than six
wards as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain, as
nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. No
person shall be eligible to the office of Council member who is not at the time
of the election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected
and a registered voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.17 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year unless reappointed.
§ 30.18 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of a member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.03, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at
which time, the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected, and the Mayor shall,
at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination, and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form pursuant to state law.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.19 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or by first-class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Personnel policies
   
31.02   Bonds; requirements
   
31.03   Oath of office; city officials
   
31.04   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
31.05   Conflict of interest involving contracts
   
31.06   Restrictions on other employment or elective office
Appointed Officials
   
31.20   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.21   Merger of offices
   
31.22   City Clerk
   
31.23   City Treasurer
   
31.24   City Attorney
   
31.25   City Administrator
   
31.26   County Sheriff to act as chief law enforcement officer
   
31.27   Enforcement officer
   
31.28   Utilities Superintendent
   
31.29   City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.30   Intergovernmental risk management
Meetings
   
31.45   Definitions
   
31.46   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.47   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
31.48   Emergency meetings
   
31.49   Closed sessions
   
31.50   Public participation
   
31.51   City Council; order of business
   
31.52   Votes
   
31.53   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
31.54   Minutes
   
31.55   Decorum
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The city’s personnel policies as set forth in the employee’s manual are
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length
in the code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.18)
§ 31.02 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance, may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to State Constitution Article XVII § 5.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties, who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
or irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom, by law, bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant.
      (1)   If such person properly files the official bond within ten days of
the issuance of the show-cause order for appointed officials or before the date
for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this section.
      (2)   If such person does not file the bond within ten days of the
issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date for taking
office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a competent
and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 31.03 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds.
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 31.04 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.21, except that when there are officers elected to the Council or any other
board or commission having more than one member, and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
such council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if, during
the same time, the emoluments thereof were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 31.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value, or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value, or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   1.   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition.
            2.   This definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under
a trading account if the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by such board
or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by the decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction of
the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract is
signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person
for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or services
furnished under the contract to the extent the governing body has benefited
thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting the performance of work under
the contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body, with all members present, from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purpose of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   (a)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing
body shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. through (G)(1)(b)5. below about
every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the
body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C)
above.
         (b)   This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from
the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
            1.   The names of the contracting parties;
            2.   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
            3.   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
            4.   The amount of the contract; and
            5.   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 31.06 RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and members of the City Council shall hold no other elective
or appointive office or employment with the city, except as provided by
ordinance.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any office which has candidates nominated or elected at
the time of a statewide primary election, any office which has candidates
nominated at the time of a statewide primary election and elected at the time
of a statewide general election, any office which has candidates elected at the
time of a statewide general election, any office which has candidates nominated
or elected at a city or village election, and any office created by an act of
the legislature which has candidates elected at an election and includes an
office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body created by an act of the legislature.
      HIGH ELECTIVE OFFICE. A member of the legislature, an elective office
described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the State
Constitution, or a county, city or school district elective office.
(Neb. RS 32-109)
   (C)   (1)   No candidate for member of the legislature or an elective office
described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20 or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the State
Constitution shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition on the
ballot as a candidate, to accept a nomination by a political party convention,
caucus or committee to fill a vacancy or to be declared write-in candidate for
more than one elective office to be filled at the same election except for the
position of delegate to a county, state or national political party convention.
      (2)   No candidate for any other high elective office shall be eligible
to file as a candidate, to petition on the ballot as a candidate, to accept a
nomination by a political party of by party convention, caucus or committee to
fill a vacancy or to be declared a write-in candidate for more than one high
elective office to be filled at the same election.
(Neb. RS 32-603)
   (D)   Except as provided in divisions (E) or (G) below, no person shall be
precluded from being elected or appointed to or holding an elective office for
the reason that he or she has been elected or appointed to or holds another
elective office.
   (E)   No person serving as a member of the legislature or in an elective
office described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or 10, of the
State Constitution shall simultaneously serve in any other elective office,
except that such a person may simultaneously serve in another elective office
that is filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a
public body.
   (F)   Whenever an incumbent serving as a member of the legislature or in an
elective office described in Article IV, §§ 1 or 20, or Article VII, §§ 3 or
10, of the State Constitution assumes another elective office, except an
elective office filled at an election held in conjunction with the annual
meeting of a public body, the office first held by the incumbent shall be
deemed vacant.
   (G)   No person serving in a high elective office shall simultaneously serve
in any other high elective office.
   (H)   Notwithstanding divisions (E) through (G) above, any person holding
more than one high elective office upon September 13, 1997, shall be entitled
to serve the remainder of all terms for which he or she was elected or
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.14)
Statutory reference:
   Mergers of offices or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-604
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year, unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
§ 31.21 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and
merge any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of
duties of any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member,
with any other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more
of such offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)
§ 31.22 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer the
journal of the proceedings of the City Council to the State Archives of the
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If
the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the
requirements of §
31.23(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq. This shall not apply to the minutes of
the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books or any other record
classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom, except
by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same, but
only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a
record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall also
deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed, in
part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
§ 31.23 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council under oath, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or 17-606(2).
Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged
and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register and carry the amounts forward, and
at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of
a public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants and other evidences of debt against the city whenever paid by him or
her by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 31.24 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.25 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment; duties.
      (1)   The office of City Administrator is an executive office of the
city. The City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council, and may be removed from office by the
Mayor with the consent of the Council.
      (2)   The duties, responsibilities and powers of the City Administrator
shall be as follows:
         (a)   To direct, supervise, be responsible for and coordinate all
departments, divisions and services of city government which are under the
control and jurisdiction of the Mayor or come under the direction and
supervision or be the responsibility of the City Administrator, although the
City Administrator shall be available to and shall assist officers in any
administrative matter that may arise and officers shall be available to and
shall assist the City Administrator in the discharge of the duties,
responsibilities and powers of the City Administrator as set forth in this
section;
         (b)    To prepare and keep up to date an inventory of all real and
personal property and other public property that the city owns or has an
interest in, and to act as purchasing agent for the purchase of all supplies,
goods, wares, merchandise, equipment and material which may be required for the
various departments, divisions and services of the city, subject to the
approval of the Mayor and Council;
         (c)   To keep the Mayor and Council fully advised as to the financial
condition and needs of the city, to be responsible for and prepare the annual
estimate of expenditures for presentation to the Mayor and Council prior to the
time for the passage and adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance and,
upon the adoption of such ordinance, to properly administer and execute the
same;
         (d)   To serve in any appointed office or head of department within
the city government if the need arises and when appointed thereto by the Mayor
and Council, and to hold and perform the duties thereof at the pleasure of the
Mayor and Council;
         (e)   To act as Deputy City Clerk and Treasurer, and in the absence of
the City Clerk and Treasurer, due to illness or otherwise, the City
Administrator shall be empowered to perform all the duties of the City Clerk
and Treasurer.
         (f)   To analyze the functions, activities, duties and
responsibilities of the various departments, divisions and services of the city
government and of all officers and employees thereof, to make recommendations
respecting the same to the Mayor and City Council and to administer any
recommendations made by the Mayor and Council respecting such functions,
activities, duties and responsibilities;
         (g)   To recommend to the Mayor and Council the appointment and
dismissal of all department heads and subordinate employees of the city over
which the Mayor and Council exercise jurisdiction and control;
         (h)   To annually prepare and recommend to the Mayor and Council
revisions and modifications of the classification and compensation plan
covering city officers and employees;
         (i)   To prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council at the end of
each fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the city for the preceding fiscal year and future projections
based on the preceding fiscal year, which report shall include recommended
short and long-range improvements and any necessary facts to substantiate such
recommendations;
         (j)   To attend all regularly scheduled meetings of the Council and
such other meetings of the Council and city departments, divisions, services,
boards, commissions, committees and officers as the City Administrator’s duties
may require, to report at such meetings any matter concerning city affairs
within the jurisdiction and under the control of the City Administrator and to
recommend to the Mayor and Council for passage and adoption such measures,
resolutions and ordinances which may be deemed necessary or expedient;
         (k)   To exercise general supervision and control over all real and
personal property and other public property under the control and jurisdiction
of the Mayor and Council;
         (l)   To manage the affairs of the city and any department, division
or service thereof under direction of the Mayor and Council; and
         (m)   To perform such other duties and exercise such powers as may be
delegated to the City Administrator from time to time by the Mayor and Council,
and to delegate any duty, responsibility or power set forth herein to other
city employees under his or her supervision and control, upon approval of the
Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Agent of Mayor. The City Administrator shall act as an agent of the
Mayor in the discharge of all of his or her duties, responsibilities and powers
set out in division (A) above; and, in the event the City Administrator shall
be absent from the city or incapable of discharging such duties,
responsibilities and powers for any reason, the Mayor shall act as City
Administrator during such absence or incapacity.
(Prior Code, § 2-3.6)
§ 31.26 COUNTY SHERIFF TO ACT AS CHIEF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The city contracts through an interlocal agreement with the county for law
enforcement within the city. The County Sheriff acts as the city’s “chief law
enforcement officer” who shall file the necessary complaints in cases arising
out of criminal violation of the city ordinances, shall direct the law
enforcement work of the city shall be responsible for the maintenance of law
and order, and shall make all necessary reports required by the city ordinances
or by the state. He or she shall act as Health Inspector, except in the event
the city appoints another person.
(Prior Code, § 2-3.8)
Statutory reference:
   Chief of designated as secretary and quarantine officer of Health Board, see
Neb. RS 17-121
   Merger of offices, see Neb. RS 17-107
§ 31.27 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment, duties. The enforcement officer shall enforce all
ordinances not enforced by law enforcement.
   (B)   Office. The office of city enforcement officer is an executive office
of the city. The city enforcement officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the advice and consent of the City Council, and may be removed from
office by the Mayor.
   (C)   The duties, responsibilities and powers of the city enforcement
officer.
      (1)   The city enforcement officer shall be responsible for enforcement
of all fee schedules adopted by the Council governing all licenses and permits
for building, electrical work, plumbing work, gas work and excavation work
performed within the jurisdiction of the city, and shall also be responsible
for the collection of all such fees.
      (2)   The city enforcement officer shall be responsible for ensuring
compliance with the city’s zoning ordinances, subdivision ordinances and
regulations and excavation ordinances, by enforcement of the provisions
thereof.
      (3)   The city enforcement officer shall be responsible for making all
inspections of all excavation, building and plumbing installations or repairs
performed within the jurisdiction of the city, and the city enforcement officer
shall not affix his or her certificate of approval to any of the above
specified work, installation or repair unless such work, installation or repair
fully complies with all of the city ordinances and regulations as of the date
of such performance.
      (4)   The city enforcement officer shall maintain an office and regular
hours in the City Hall.
      (5)   The city enforcement officer shall keep complete records of all
applications, permits and fees received by him or her, all inspections made by
him or her and all certificates of approval issued by him or her.
      (6)   The city enforcement officer shall make a written monthly report to
the Mayor and Council covering all applications, approved or denied, all of the
work, installations and repairs performed within the jurisdiction of the city
for which licenses, permits or inspections are required, and also setting forth
the inspections he or she has performed and the certificates of approval he or
she has issued during the month.
      (7)   The city enforcement officer shall meet with and assist the
Planning Commission as it may request or as his or her duties may require.
      (8)   The city enforcement officer shall pay over all fees which he or
she has collected to the City Treasurer on a monthly basis.
      (9)   The city enforcement officer shall obtain at the expense of the
city and file with the Council a corporate surety bond in the sum of $5,000,
running to the city and conditioned upon his or her proper performance of all
of the duties and obligations vested in him or her.
   (D)   Substitute authority. Should the city enforcement officer be incapable
of discharging his or her duties, responsibilities and powers for any reason,
the Mayor shall act as the city enforcement officer during such absence or
incapacity or until a new city enforcement officer can be appointed to fill
such absence or vacancy.
   (E)   Compensation. The salary of the city enforcement officer shall be
fixed by ordinance of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-3.11)
§ 31.28 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility and the governing body determines that it is
in the best interest of the municipality to appoint on official to have the
immediate control over all said municipal utilities. The Utilities
Superintendent may be removed at any time by a two-thirds vote of the governing
body. Any vacancy occurring in said office by death, resignation or removal may
be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all
municipal officials. The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following
departments shall be as stated in division (B) below.
   (B)   He or she shall have general supervision and control over the
municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for its economic
operation and prudent management. Included in said water system shall be the
water plant, the pump house, all machinery and appliances used in connection
with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the municipality. All
actions, decisions and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be
subject to the general directives and control of the governing body. The
Utilities Superintendent shall have general control and supervisory authority
over all employees of the water system which the governing body may from time
to time hire to operate and maintain said system. He or she shall make a
detailed report to the governing body at least once every six months of the
condition of said water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and
machinery and such improvements, repairs and extensions thereof as he or she
may think proper. The report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures
on account thereof for the preceding six months. No money shall be expended for
improvements, repairs or extensions of said waterworks system except upon the
recommendation of the Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall
provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties
which shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution of the
governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk. He or she
shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 2-3.10)
§ 31.29 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public
heating systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and
the erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as
the City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.30 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   The City Council and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb. RS
44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative
action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339 to form, become
members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to
members risk management services and insurance coverages in the form of group
self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-
insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising
from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including,
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers’ compensation liability.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.26)
Statutory reference:
   Intergovernmental risk management authorized and regulated, see Neb. RS 44-
4301 through 44-4339
MEETINGS
§ 31.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the State Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 31.46 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to
the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers if no
edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the public body’s
jurisdiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the
meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village or district. Such notice shall be posted by the public body
in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Submit a post on a statewide website established and
maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers;
and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting. The
record of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required
and shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   (a)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the
time of the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be
kept continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the
office of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting.
         (b)   Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be
altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or
48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council
scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city. The public body shall have
the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at
such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(8)
§ 31.47 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at such times as
the Council may provide by ordinance. A majority of all the members elected to
the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but
a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members. When the City Council consists of four members as established
by ordinance or home rule charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the
City Council for the purpose of establishing a quorum when the Mayor’s presence
is necessary to establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law,
an affirmative vote of at least one-half of the elected members shall be
required for the transaction of any business.
(Neb. RS 17-105)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Council members shall have the power to
call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.
§ 31.48 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunications equipment. The provisions of Neb. RS 84-1411(5) shall be
complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meetings shall be made
available to the public by not later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.49 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close.
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purpose of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order or ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(2)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 31.50 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings
of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
31.49, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing. Except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
31.49, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to speak
at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a place
known by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 31.51 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All regular and special meetings of the City Council shall be open to
the public. The business of the Council shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Agenda;
       (3)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
      (4)   Consideration of claims;
      (5)   Reports of officers, boards and commissions;
      (6)   Reports of standing committee Chairpersons;
      (7)   Public comment;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   New business; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Provided, that any matter to come before the Council which requires a
public hearing shall be set for a time certain and be taken up at that time, or
immediately upon the conclusion of the item of business before the Council at
that time; and provided, that the presiding officer may refer back to any order
of business after passing it if there is no objection by any member of the
Council.
   (C)   All committees, boards and commissions of the City Council shall make
their reports in writing when directed to do so by the presiding officer, but
no less than once a year at the June meeting. All reports shall be filed with
the City Clerk.
   (D)   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided
without debate.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.4)
§ 31.52 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.53 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and, while speaking, shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or
motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon if requested by the
City Clerk or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before
being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the
minutes, the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution
shall be entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken
and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution,
motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor
with the consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion
or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
“Robert’s Rules of Order” is the authority by which the Council shall decide
all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 31.54 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.55 DECORUM.
   (A)   While the City Council is in session, the Mayor and the members of the
Council shall preserve decorum and order, and neither the Mayor nor any member
of the Council shall, by conversation or otherwise, delay or disturb the
proceedings or the peace of the Council, nor disturb the Mayor or any member of
the Council while speaking, nor refuse to obey the orders of the Mayor or
Council, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   While the Council is in session, no person shall make personal,
impertinent or slanderous remarks, nor otherwise disturb the order and decorum
of any Council meeting. At the direction of the Mayor, the sergeant-at-arms
shall remove any person, other than the Mayor or member of the Council,
violating the provisions of this division (B).
   (C)   The Mayor may designate the person to be the sergeant-at-arms at each
regular or special meeting of the Council. The sergeant-at-arms shall carry out
all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer for the purpose of
maintaining order and decorum at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-1.7)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Appointments and notice of meetings
Boards, Commissions and Committees
   
32.15   Library Board
   
32.16   Planning Commission
   
32.17   Board of Adjustment
   
32.18   Board of Health
   
32.19   Housing Agency Board
   
32.20   Housing Agency
   
32.21   Economic Development Advisory Review Committee
   
32.22   Tree Advisory Board
Fire Department
   
32.35   City fire protection
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENTS AND NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, with approval of the City Council, shall make the appointments
and fill vacancies for the boards, commissions and departments described in
this chapter unless otherwise stated. Advance notice of the meetings of the
city boards and committees shall comply with ordinance and statute for public
bodies.
(Prior Code, § 2-4.1)
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
§ 32.15 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219,
and except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202, the
Library Board shall have five appointed members, who shall be residents of the
city and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library
Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the
number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members
shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies
by resignation, removal or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
Secretary and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
§ 32.16 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of five, seven
or nine regular members, as specified by the City Council by ordinance, who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there are 500 residents in the area over which the city exercises
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the
Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is determined by the City
Council that 500 residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial
zoning or subdivision regulation and no such resident is a regular member of
the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled
by the appointment of such an individual. A number of Commissioners equal to a
majority of the number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. All regular members of
the Commission shall serve without compensation. The term of each regular
member shall be three years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular
members of the first Commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one
year, one-third or fewer for terms of two years and the remaining members for
terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently, and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but not more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public
record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council, and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 through 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment,
bear relation to the planning of such city, and including a comprehensive
development plan, as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter, or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for the subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks if
the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb. RS 19-
916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name;
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts or grant funds from
public/private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the city;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.17 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment and its duties and authority is described in the
City Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-4.4)
§ 32.18 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: the Mayor,
who shall be Chairperson, the President of the City Council and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a
Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them and
may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board shall have the power to and shall make all needful rules
and regulations relating to matters of the sanitation of the city, including
the removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys,
vacant grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
waterclosets, cesspools, stables and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board shall also have
control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of the sick and
matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
§ 32.19 HOUSING AGENCY BOARD.
   (A)   The local Housing Authority established under prior state law, and in
existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the State Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council shall appoint five persons who shall constitute
the Housing Agency and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The City
Council may appoint one of its members to serve as one of the five members of
such Housing Agency for such term as the City Council may determine.
      (2)   No persons shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides
within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of the
appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the City
Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper
appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation
for his or her services, but he or she shall be entitled to the necessary
expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in the discharge of his or her
duties. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Agency for
the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers and for all other
purposes. Action may be taken by the Agency upon the vote of the majority of
the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the Agency shall
require a larger number.
      (3)   The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive
director who shall serve as ex officio Secretary of the Authority. The Agency
may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law officer of the
city, for such services as it may require. It may employ technical experts and
such other officers, agents and employees as it may require and it shall
determine their qualifications, duties and compensations and terms of office.
The Agency may delegate such other powers and duties to its agents or employees
as it may deem proper. During this tenure, and for one year thereafter, no
Commissioner, officer or employee of the City Housing Agency shall voluntarily
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property
included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or
proposed contract relating to any housing project.
      (4)   If any such Commissioner, officer or employee involuntarily
acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such
interest prior to appointment or employment as Commissioner, officer or
employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or her interest in writing
to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the
Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any action by the Agency
relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any such interest;
provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in
notes or bonds of the Agency issued in connection with any housing project, or
to the execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit of handling
of funds in connection with any housing project, or to the execution of
agreements by banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in
connection with a project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to
utility services, the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental
agency.
      (5)   The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or
misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send
a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement
containing the charges against him or her. Unless within ten days from the
receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a
hearing before the City Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed
from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the City
Council shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the right to
appear in person or by counsel and the City Council shall determine whether the
removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the
Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position.
   (C)   The Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to the
City Council on all such information.
(Prior Code, § 2-4.6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
§ 32.20 HOUSING AGENCY.
   (A)   Housing Authority; continued existence as Housing Agency.
      (1)   The local Housing Authority established under prior state law, and
in existence on January 1, 2000, shall have continued existence as a housing
agency under the State Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
      (2)   The local Housing Agency shall conduct its operations consistent
with the State Housing Agency Act. All property, rights in land, buildings,
records and equipment and any funds, money revenue, receipts or assets of the
Authority belong to the Agency as successor. All obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the Authority are obligations, debts,
commitments and liabilities of the successor Agency.
      (3)   Any resolution by the Authority and any action taken by the
Authority prior to January 1, 2000, with regard to any project or program which
is to be completed within or to be conducted for a 12-month period following
January 1, 2000 and which resolution or action is lawful under state law as it
existed prior to January 1, 2000, is a lawful resolution or action of the
successor Agency and binding upon the successor Agency and enforceable by or
against the Agency, notwithstanding that such resolution or action is
inconsistent with, not authorized by or prohibited under the provisions of the
State Housing Agency Act.
      (4)   All Commissioners of the local Housing Agency, and all officers,
legal counsel, technical experts, directors and other appointees or employees
of the agency holding office or employment by virtue of any such prior law on
January 1, 2000, shall be deemed to have been appointed or employed under the
State Housing Agency Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.26)
   (B)   Housing Agency; reports.
      (1)   The Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual
report. Such report shall include all mortgages and other interests in real
property held by the contracts; a listing of all bond issues and their
essential terms and obligations; and all other financial obligations of the
Housing Agency over $50,000. Such reports shall be considered public records.
      (2)   If there has been no change from the last report in the status of
any of the items reported pursuant to this section, the Housing Agency may file
a statement to that effect in lieu of the report.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.27)
   (C)   Housing Agency; rules and regulations.
      (1)   The Housing Agency may establish from time to time rules and
regulations consistent with the purposes of this section concerning the
priority of eligible applicants for occupancy.
      (2)   The Agency may give preferential treatment to applicants who are
service members and or veterans, relatives of service members or veterans, or
disabled service members or veterans, the elderly or disabled, those in urgent
need of adequate housing or who have no adequate source of income, provided
that in any such system of priority, displaced persons in need shall have a
priority ahead of all other persons and provided, further, that no tenant in
good standing then in occupancy and qualified for continued occupancy shall
have his or her tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling units for
classes or categories of applicants as the Agency may establish.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.28)
   (D)   Housing Agency; ownership.
      (1)   The City Housing Agency is owned by the city and operated through
the Housing Agency Commission.
      (2)   The Housing Agency shall constitute a body corporate and politic
and shall have all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provisions of the State Housing Agency Law.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.29)
   (E)   Housing Agency; definitions. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, the definitions and terms set out in state statutes relating to
housing authorities under the State Housing Agency Law are hereby adopted by
reference as they now exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.30)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
§ 32.21 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   This Committee is defined and authorized as stated in the Local Option
Municipal Economic Development Act, being Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-4.7)
§ 32.22 TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment. There is created and established a City
Tree Advisory Board for the city which shall consist of a minimum of three
residents of this city.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of the persons to be appointed shall be three
years except that the term of one-third of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for only one year, and the term of one-third of members of the
first Board shall be for two years, and in the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for a new three-
year term.
   (C)   Compensation and finances. Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Board will also investigate, provide assistance and make
recommendations to the City Administrator regarding supplemental funding from
sources (such as grants, loans, donations) other than the required $2 per
capita.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer,
written plans (annual and long-range) for the care, preservation, pruning,
planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks,
along streets, in other public areas.
         (b)   Such plans will be presented annually to the City Council and,
upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive
city tree plan for the city.
      (3)   The Board will also keep an updated inventory of public trees by
species, number and location. The written plan will be presented annually to
the City Council and, upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the
official comprehensive city tree plan for the city.
      (4)   The Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
   (E)   Operation. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a record of minutes of its proceedings. A current copy
of its rules and regulations shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-4.8) (Ord. 303, passed 4-5-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Law, see Neb. RS 84-1408 through 84-1414
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 CITY FIRE PROTECTION.
   Fire protection for the city shall be provided by the County Rural Fire
District #2 as set forth in the joint resolution between the city and the
County Rural Fire District #2, Resolution No. 05-07 as passed and adopted June
14, 2007.
(Prior Code, § 2-5.1)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention and protection, see
Chapter 92
CHAPTER 33: FORMS OF LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
33.01   Grant of power
   
33.02   Introduction of ordinances
   
33.03   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
33.04   Ordinances; style, title
   
33.05   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
33.06   Publication or posting
   
33.07   Certificate of publication or posting
   
33.08   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
33.09   Amendments and revisions
Initiative and Referendum
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Petitions; ballots
   
33.22   Petitions; form; declaratory judgments
   
33.23   Signature sheets
   
33.24   Petition notification; verification
   
33.25   Frequency of occurrence
   
33.26   Direct vote
   
33.27   Elections
   
33.28   Ballots
   
33.29   Initiative
   
33.30   Referendum; limitations
   
33.31   Referendum passage
   
33.32   Applicability
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 33.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions not inconsistent with the laws of the state as may be expedient for
maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its trade
and commerce and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for
the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with
costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 33.02 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 33.03 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions
shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
33.02 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the City Council.
   (B)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 33.04 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Oshkosh, Nebraska: ….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 33.05 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the
appropriation or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption
the concurrence of a majority of all elected members of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any such matter if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council
cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy or abstention of one or more City
Council members.
         (b)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
title on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement.
         (b)   Such requirement shall not be suspended:
            1.   For any ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the
redrawing of boundaries for City Council election districts or wards; or
            2.   As otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or any
such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the City Council shall be required.
      (2)   All appointments of the officers by the City Council shall be made
viva voce, and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the
names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an
appointment shall be recorded.
      (3)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a city which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the
yeas and nays of each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 33.06 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In a newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 33.07 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 33.08 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the city which
has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the voters of the
city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 33.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the city by state law. This section shall govern the use of
initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the city. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
   CITY. The City of Oshkosh, Nebraska.
   CLERK. The City Clerk or the city official in charge of elections.
   MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within the
legislative Agency of the City Council to pass, and which is not excluded from
the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
33.32.
   PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
33.23 or any copy of such document.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is no
street and number for the residence, PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the mailing
address.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information necessary
for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which has not yet
been authorized for circulation.
   QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
   RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
    SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which is
signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.14)
Statutory reference:
   Power reserved to qualified electors, see Neb. RS 18-2501
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2503 through 18-2511
§ 33.21 PETITIONS; BALLOTS.
   (A)   (1)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition, and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition, and such authorization shall be given within two working days from
the receipt of the properly revised petition.
      (2)   Verification by the Clerk that the prospective petition is in
proper form does not constitute an admission by the Clerk, City Council or city
that the measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or that the
measure may be enacted by initiative.
(Neb. RS 18-2512)
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and which is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
(Neb. RS 18-2513)
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots, and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case, ten-point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2513
§ 33.22 PETITIONS; FORM; DECLARATORY JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by the City
Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing prospective
petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum forms is
required before authorization to circulate such petition shall be granted by
the City Clerk. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation after authorization for circulation has been granted.
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the City Clerk. Every petition shall
contain the name and place of residence of not more than three persons as chief
petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners or sponsors shall
be qualified electors of the municipality potentially affected by the
initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain the caption and
the statement specified to be part of the ballot title. When a special election
is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition.
   (C)   The city or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this subchapter, as it may be from time
to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure
is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be
enacted by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the
city shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail service upon the
chief executive officer or City Clerk. If the city seeks a declaratory
judgment, only the chief petitioner or the chief petitioners shall be required
to be served.
   (D)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the district
court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with
the City Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from the date the City
Council received notification from the verifying official that the necessary
signatures have been obtained. If the city does not bring an action for
declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative,
until after it has received such notification, it shall be required to proceed
with the initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter. If the city does file such an action prior to receiving such
notification, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a
final decision has been rendered in the action.
   (E)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
Neb. RS 25-21,149 through 25-21,164, except that only the city and each chief
petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The city, City Clerk, City
Council or any of the city’s officers shall be entitled to rely on any order
rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for
declaratory judgment pursuant to this subchapter shall be given priority in
scheduling hearings and in disposition as determined by the court. When an
action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a
decision shall be rendered by the court no later than five days prior to the
election.
   (F)   The provisions of this subchapter relating to declaratory judgments
shall not be construed as limiting but construed as supplemental and additional
to other rights and remedies conferred by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.16)
Statutory reference:
   Service of summons on political subdivisions, see Neb. RS 25-510.02
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2514, 18-2515 and 18-2538
§ 33.23 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   (A)   Every signature sheet shall:
      (1)   Contain the caption required by state law;
      (2)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories; and
      (3)   Comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 32-628.
   (B)   Signers and circulators shall comply with Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516 and 18-2517
§ 33.24 PETITION NOTIFICATION; VERIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
City Council, the city and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of the
county in which such city is located may by mutual agreement provide that the
County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether the petition is
signed by the requisite number of voters. The city shall reimburse the county
for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner. When the
verifying official has determined that 100% of the necessary signatures
required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or she shall notify the City
Council of that fact and shall immediately forward to the City Council a copy
of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the City Council and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file with
the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Neb. RS 18-2518) (Prior Code, § 2-7.18)
§ 33.25 FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2519
§ 33.26 DIRECT VOTE.
   The executive officer and City Council of the city may at any time, by
resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the electors of any
measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override of any veto, if
necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter, and may provide in
such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a special election or
the next regularly scheduled primary or general election. Immediately upon the
passage of any such resolution for submission, the Clerk shall cause such
measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors, at the time specified
in such resolution and in the manner provided in this subchapter for submission
of measures upon proposals and petitions filed by voters. Such matter shall
become law if approved by a majority of the votes cast.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.20)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2520
§ 33.27 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk shall call elections under this subchapter either at a
special election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. No special
election to be conducted by the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall be
held within 30 days, prior to the statewide primary or general election, or
within 60 days after the statewide primary or general election. He or she shall
cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more newspapers of
general circulation in such city at least once not less than 30 days prior to
such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk and in at least three
conspicuous places in such city at least 30 days prior to such election.
      (2)   The notice shall be substantially as follows.
 
“Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the            day of            , 20            , at                                            (identify polling place or precinct) of the City of Oshkosh , Nebraska, an election will be held at which there will be submitted to the electors of the city for their approval or rejection, the following measures, propositions or issues:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
(naming measures, propositions or issues)
 
 
which election will be open at 8:00 a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
 
Dated this            day of            , 20            .
 
Clerk of the City of Oshkosh , Nebraska.”
 
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this subchapter
shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.21)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 33.28 BALLOTS.
   (A)   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall
be prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the City Council, unless the City
Council contracts with the county for such service and shall be in form the
same as provided by law for election of the executive officer and City Council.
   (B)   When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the electors at a
regularly scheduled primary or general election, they shall be placed upon the
official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.22)
Statutory reference:
   Election costs, see Neb. RS 32-1201 through 32-1208
   Notice, publication and printing of ballots for statewide elections, see
Neb. RS 32-801 through 32-822
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2522
§ 33.29 INITIATIVE.
   (A)   (1)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact
measures affecting the governance of the city. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
      (2)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect
effect of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2528.
(Neb. RS 18-2523)
   (B)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the city has been filed with the
Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the City Council to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. If the City Council fails to pass the measure without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the city. If the City Council desires to submit
the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the next
regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the city, the City
Council shall by resolution direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be
submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to
referendum or limited referendum.
(Neb. RS 18-2524)
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
33.24, it shall be the duty of the City Council to consider passage of the
measure contained in the petition, including an override of any veto, if
necessary. If the City Council fails to pass the measure, without amendment,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from the date
it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to
a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose. Subject to
the provisions of this chapter, the date of such election shall not be less
than 30 nor more than 60 days from the date the City Council received
notification pursuant to §
33.24.
(Neb. RS 18-2525)
   (D)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the city
30 days after certification of the election results, unless the City Council by
resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure itself provides for
a later effective date, which resolution shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum. A measure passed by such method shall not be amended or
repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members of the City Council. No
such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within one year from the passage
of the measure by the electors.
(Neb. RS 18-2526)
(Prior Code, § 2-7.23)
§ 33.30 REFERENDUM; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the city.
(Neb. RS 18-2527)
   (B)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)    Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations,
including, but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided
for in bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects
previously approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or
limited referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to July
17, 1982;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the State Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq.;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the City Council and approved by
the Mayor;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (E) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the City Clerk to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in
divisions (A) and (C) of this section;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in division (E) below; and
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001 et
seq., by the city and which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations
provided for in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of
indebtedness;
      (9)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal a zoning
regulation, restriction or boundary and are subject to protest as provided in
Neb. RS 19-905; and
      (10)   Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not limited
to, establishment, modification or elimination of any personnel position,
policy, salary or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion or termination of
personnel.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(1))
   (C)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the city or relating to
projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects,
and measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of the
City Council and the Mayor; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the city except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(2))
   (D)   (1)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take
effect 30 days after their passage by the City Council, including an override
of any veto, if necessary.
      (2)   Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to limited
referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
33.26 within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the City Council,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after notice is first
published pursuant to division (E)(1)(c) below.
      (3)   If the necessary number of signatures as provided in this section
has been obtained within the time limitation, the effectiveness of the measure
shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(3))
   (E)   (1)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the city may exempt all subsequent measures relating to the
same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided for
in this section by the following procedure:
         (a)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place
of such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to
the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction;
         (b)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
         (c)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto,
if necessary, by giving notice as follows:
            1.   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum; and
            2.   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division (E)(1)
(c) shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within
the city and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the
City Council, including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure
approving the project.
      (2)   The right of the city to hold such a hearing prior to the passage
of the measure by the City Council and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the City Council to obtain exemption for any particular project in a
manner described in this division (E) is optional, and the city shall not be
required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any particular project.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(4))
   (F)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (B), (C) and (E) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the City Council, including an override of a veto, if necessary,
or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(Neb. RS 18-2528(5))
(Prior Code, § 2-7.24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2528
§ 33.31 REFERENDUM PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the city has been filed with the
Clerk and verified pursuant to §
33.24, it shall be the duty of the City Council to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the City
Council fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within 30 days from the date the City Council receives notification pursuant to
§
33.24, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the
people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within
the city. If the City Council desires to submit the measure to a vote of the
people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the city, the City Council shall, by resolution,
direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special election.
Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited referendum.
(Neb. RS 18-2529)
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the city which requests that a special
election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the people has
been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the City
Council to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure which is the
object of the referendum. If the City Council fails to repeal or amend the
measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum, including
an override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose
within 30 days from the date the City Council received notification. Subject to
the provisions §
33.27, the date of such special election shall not be less than 30 nor more
than 60 days from the date the City Council received notification.
(Neb. RS 18-2530)
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the City Council. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Neb. RS 18-2531)
(Prior Code, § 2-7.25)
§ 33.32 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., so far as applicable
and when not in conflict with Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, shall apply to
voting on ordinances by the registered voters pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-2536)
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to procedures for initiatives or
referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504 and 70-650.01, relating to public power
districts, and Neb. RS 80-203 through 80-205 relating to soldiers and sailors
monuments.
(Neb. RS 18-2537)
(Prior Code, § 2-7.26)
Statutory reference:
   Statutory penalties for violation of state initiative and referendum laws,
see the Election Act, Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Primary election; number of candidates filing
   
34.08   Certificate of nomination or election
   
34.09   Tie votes
   
34.10   Filing fee
   
34.11   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.12   Exit polls; poll watchers
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise.
      (2)   All city elections involving the election of officers shall be held
in accordance with the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the city shall
be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the
charter, code or bylaws of the city.
   (C)   The city shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and the
certification of results.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   (a)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
the certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible
for all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered
voters, except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue.
         (b)   The election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted and canvassed at the same time
and in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of
the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall certify the election results to the City Council. The canvass by
the County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by
the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the city shall be
responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled election.
Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS 32-1202
that are associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the city
withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.,
shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected
month unless otherwise specifically provided. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, no special election shall be held under the Election Act in April,
May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year unless it is
held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election. No special
election shall be held under the Election Act in September of an even-numbered
year except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and except for a special election by
a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a
property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   Not later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of the
remaining terms and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for the purposes
of the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Such ordinance providing for
nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not
less than 60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 PRIMARY ELECTION; NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the names of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election for officers of the city do not exceed two candidates for each
position to be filled, any such candidates shall be declared nominated, and
their names shall not appear on any primary election ballots.
(Neb. RS 32-811) (Prior Code, § 2-7.5)
§ 34.08 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION OR ELECTION.
   (A)   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk or City Clerk shall, within 40
days after the election, prepare, sign and deliver a certificate of nomination
or a certificate of election to each person whom the Canvassing Board has
declared to have received the highest vote for each city office. No person
shall be issued a certificate of nomination as a candidate of a political party
unless such person has received at least 5% of the total ballots cast at the
primary election by registered voters affiliated with that political party in
the district which the office for which he or she is a candidate serves.
   (B)   A certificate of election prepared by the City Clerk shall be in the
form as nearly as possible prescribed in Neb. RS 32-1033 and shall be signed by
the Mayor, under the seal of the city and countersigned by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-7.11)
Statutory reference:
   Duty to issue certificates, see Neb. RS 32-558
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-3041 and 32-1033
§ 34.09 TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall notify such
candidates by certified mail to appear at his or her office on a given day and
hour to determine the outcome before the Canvassing Board, and the certificate
of nomination or election shall be delivered accordingly.
(Neb. RS 32-1122) (Prior Code, § 2-7.12)
§ 34.10 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.11 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate:
         (a)   Files for the office by petition as prescribed in divisions (B)
and (C) below;
         (b)   Files as a write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615;
or
         (c)   Is nominated by political party convention or committee pursuant
to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   (1)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of
Neb. RS 32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and
address of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the
party affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be
filed with the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed
by registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in state law. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630.
      (2)   No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to §
34.10. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election, and all signed petitions not filed with the Secretary of State by
such date shall become invalid.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.12 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not do any electioneering or disseminate any
information or materials advertising or advocating for or against any ballot
measure while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   Budget revision
   
35.33   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.45   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.46   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.47   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.48   Property tax request; procedure for setting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium, commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years, used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
State County and City Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., only those net
proceeds which are actually received by the city from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the ANNUAL REPORT.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city, or the fiscal year which is
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts
to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made
by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the
fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council.
         (b)   If the city owns or operates any type of public utility or other
enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, that phase of the
affairs of the city shall be audited separately from other functions of the
city, and the result shall appear separately in the annual audit report made by
the accountant to the city and such audit shall be on an accrual basis and
shall contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted
accounting principles. For the utilities operated through the Board of Public
Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely separate audit, on an
accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a different accountant than
the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk not later
than August 1 of each year financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or
any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement
is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made by the City
Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids, as
provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the
amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment.
   (D)   The City Council shall fix not only the day upon which such bids shall
be returned, received or opened, but shall also fix the hour at which such bids
shall close, or be received or opened, and shall also provide that such bids
shall be immediately and simultaneously opened in the presence of the bidders,
or representatives of the bidders, when the hour is reached for the bids to
close. If bids are being opened on more than one contract, the officials having
in charge the opening of such bids may, if they deem it advisable, award each
contract as the bids are opened.
   (E)   (1)   The advertisement provided for in division (B) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the city and, if there is no legal
newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city, then in some
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the city is
located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general circulation published in
the county in which the city is located, then in a newspaper, designated by the
City Council, having a general circulation within the county where bids are
required, and if no newspaper is published in the city or county, or if no
newspaper has general circulation in the county, then by posting a written or
printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the city at least seven
days prior to the bid closing.
      (2)   In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or
contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency
or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy
to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or
property, estimates of costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the
emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-
fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing city, the City Council may authorize
the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
161.06; or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (I), the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Prior Code, § 2-6.1) (Ord. 479, passed 12-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756 and 73-101
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim, as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement, and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists, at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto,
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in
a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness,
such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost and the
specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established to
carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the proposition
for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the submission of the
proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot containing the
proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive weeks before
the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general circulation in the city,
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county in which the
city is located. No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has
been authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the city cast for
or against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election
in the manner prescribed in this division (C), the City Council and its
successors in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such
resolution of submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election
provided for under this section shall be conducted as provided under the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time, less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The City Council shall approve this bond or giving of
security. The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13
banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The
interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which
the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for improvements of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Council
so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board, may
be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon
the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 72-
1261 et seq., and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS 72-1237 et seq., and
as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State Investment
Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period, and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.29.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from the taxation of personal and real property,
separately stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered
cash balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the
year or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS
18-2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the City Council;
and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time.
      (2)   Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice, the four calendar
days shall include the day of publication but not the day of the hearing. When
the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per
year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted
at the City Council’s principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing
body shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement
available to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions
of the proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison
with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the
proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the
hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor
detects such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Council of such
errors. The Council shall correct any such error as provided in §
35.32. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year,
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, if applicable, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required, plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period,
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
35.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State Budget
Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in
which the Council may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.32 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year so as to meet the need for additional money in
that manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appeal or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall, correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction.
      (2)   After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.33 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to
the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the
adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq., need not be
followed for that proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary function
which is transferred to the General Fund of the city shall be shown as a source
of revenue in the city budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget
Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.45 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year, the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy, required to be raised by
taxation, for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.46, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise-authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.46 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy, plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801
et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq. The maximum
levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant
to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse,
home health nurse or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue,
memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies for
judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial
Relations, obtained against the city which require or obligate the city to pay
that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior
to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured
by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-
free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a
lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy limits
established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in
this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies provided
by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the
limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., community redevelopment
authorities established under the Community Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101 et
seq., and off-street parking districts established under the Off-street Parking
District Act, Neb. RS 19-3301 et seq., may be allocated property taxes, as
authorized by law, which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. For off-street parking districts established under the Off-street
Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city
proportionately by dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The City Council shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of
the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater
than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as
provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the Chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass not more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions that are set forth in the resolution or petition and shall
include the language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   1.   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years.
            2.   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the
issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition
which is at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition, and the
time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election. The
election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.47 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.48 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax request for the
current year shall be not more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS
77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set the
amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set its property tax request
at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior year, it may do
so, subject to the limitations provided in the School District Property Tax
Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property Tax Growth Limitation
Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with
division (D) below. If any county, city, school district or community college
seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of
Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax
request for the current year shall be not more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set
its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in
the prior year, it may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, city, school district or
community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C)
and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of the hearing. If the city’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the City Council’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a city’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city’s property tax request
in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by ____ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Oshkosh proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $____ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Oshkosh will exceed last
year’s by ____ percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.05   Delinquent bills
   
50.06   Connection and reconnection charges
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELINQUENT UTILITY SERVICE BILL. Any bill for utility service, all or any
portion of which is not paid during the normal billing cycle; provided, that
where an installment payment plan is in effect, DELINQUENT UTILITY SERVICE BILL
shall mean any bill for utility service, of which all or any portion of the
scheduled payment is not paid during the normal billing cycle.
   EMPLOYEE. An employee of the city who is employed for the purpose of
conducting hearings for the city and who may otherwise be employed by the city
or by another.
   SUBSCRIBER or PATRON. Any natural persons and, where relevant, a
corporation, partnership or unincorporated association, who is a subscriber or
patron of a utility owned or operated by the city.
   UTILITY. Any enterprise, facility or service provided under the ownership,
direction or control of the city; provided, that the City Municipal Airport is
specifically excluded from the meaning of UTILITY as used in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-1.1)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in
this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for nonpayment
of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives notice to any
subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such notice shall be
given in person, by first-class mail or by electronic delivery, except that
electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber has specifically
elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If notice is given by
first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall be conspicuously
marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least
seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends shall be
excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company shall not
charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility service that
exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) above shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the utility’s employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s, physician
assistant’s or advanced practice registered nurse’s certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility’s service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division (C)(7)
for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in the payment of their utility
bill and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are incorporated by reference in addition to any
amendments thereto and made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any city utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner that
any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any city utility supplying such service if the service has been
disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying the electricity, electric
current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Bills not paid on or prior to the fourteenth of the month will be
considered delinquent.
   (B)   Customers with delinquent bills will receive written notice by mail
that service may be terminated unless they do one of the following before the
disconnection date in the letter:
      (1)   Pay bill in full;
      (2)   Mail a partial payment of at least 50% of the delinquent bill and
enter into a written agreement to pay the balance in two monthly installments
of at least $50 per payment. This agreement also requires payment of the
current month’s bill as due;
      (3)   Pay the undisputed portion of the bill and file a written appeal
with the City Clerk of the disputed portion of the bill. Service will be
continued until the designated employee hears the appeal; or
      (4)   Time extension for payment of delinquent bills will not be granted
by telephone. Installment payment arrangements must be made prior to
disconnection date with signed agreement.
(Prior Code, § 3-1.4)
§ 50.06 CONNECTION AND RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   There are no service connection charges for new accounts opened with
the city.
   (B)   Service disconnected for nonpayment will be re-established when the
customer makes full payment of past due charges and pays $40 for the reconnect
fee for each service disconnected during business hours. Reconnect fee after
hours is $125.
(Prior Code, § 3-1.5)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who obtains utility services, which he or she knows are
available only for compensation, by deception or threat or by false token or
other means to avoid payment for the service, commits an unlawful act.
   (B)   A person commits an unlawful act if, having control over the
disposition of services of utilities of others to which he or she is not
entitled, he or she diverts such services to his or her own benefit or to the
benefit of another not entitled thereto.
   (C)   Any person deemed guilty of an unlawful act of this title shall be
subject to §
10.99.
   (D)   The remedy provided in this section is an additional remedy and not a
limitation of any other civil, criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-1.6)
Statutory reference:
   General authority, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Collection service; fees
   
51.03   Containers
   
51.04   Unauthorized use of containers prohibited
   
51.05   Prohibited accumulation and disposal
   
51.06   Dead animals
   
51.07   Burning
   
51.08   Liquids and hazardous materials
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables
and dead animals rejected by rendering plants.
   GARBAGE, REFUSE and TRASH. As ordinarily defined, except where specifically
stated otherwise.
   LANDFILL. A landfill which is licensed with the State Department of
Environmental Quality which the city has designated for city dumping.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and including garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings and solid market and industrial waste.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, tin cans, garbage, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind that will be a
detriment to the public health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.1)
§ 51.02 COLLECTION SERVICE; FEES.
   (A)   The city provides for the collection of garbage, rubbish, trash and
waste on a city-wide basis. Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, manager or
other person in possession of a residence, place of business, factory, medical
facility or other institution or other tract of land located inside the city
limits shall pay to the city a use fee for the removal by the city of garbage,
refuse and trash. Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, manager or other
person in possession of a residence, place of business, factory, medical
facility or other institution or other tract of land located outside the city
limits but within one mile of the city limits may contract with the city and
pay the city a use fee for the removal by the city of garbage, refuse and
trash.
   (B)   The use fees shall be in such amounts as the Mayor and City Council
shall set by resolution. The use fees provided for herein shall be charged to
each property served.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.2)
Statutory reference:
   General authority, see Neb. RS 17-121, 17-123, 17-573 and 19-2106
§ 51.03 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of any item of garbage, refuse or trash in the
city except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The city shall place containers at various locations inside the city
limits for the collection of garbage, refuse and trash from those properties
served which are located inside the city limits. The city shall also place
containers at various locations outside the city limits for the collection of
garbage, refuse and trash from those properties served which are located
outside the city limits. The Mayor and City Council, by resolution, shall
designate the types of garbage, refuse and trash which persons may dispose of
by putting in the city containers. No person shall put any other type of
garbage, refuse or trash in the city containers.
   (C)   No person shall dispose of any garbage, refuse or trash which is not
permitted to be disposed of by putting in the city containers, except by:
      (1)   Contacting the City Clerk to have the city haul such garbage,
refuse or trash to the city landfill and paying to the city such use fee as the
Mayor and Council shall set by resolution; or
      (2)   Hauling such garbage, refuse or trash to the city landfill at that
person’s expense.
   (D)   Requirements for dumpster use are as follows.
      (1)   The following items may be placed in the dumpster:
         (a)   Normal non-animal and non-vegetable household items. Paper,
cans, plastic and cardboard can be put in the dumpster, however, it is
preferred that, in order to help the environment, items that can be recycled
are taken to the trailer at First Street and Hancock Street;
         (b)   Animal and vegetable items wrapped in paper or plastic. A sealed
trash bag is considered wrapping; or
         (c)   Garden material and plant trimmings that are smaller than three
feet in length and three inches in diameter.
      (2)   No person shall place these items in the dumpster:
         (a)   Grass clippings and leaves. There is a collection area in the
southwest corner of the fairgrounds for clippings and leaves. Grass clippings
or leaves should not be piled in the alley. Composting should be contained;
         (b)   Construction materials, demolition or remodeling debris;
         (c)   Concrete, dirt, sod, plaster or other heavy materials;
         (d)   Flammable liquids, cleaning fluid, waste oil, gasoline, paint
and paint cans that are still wet;
         (e)   Tree limbs larger than three feet in length and three inches in
diameter, along with large bushes;
         (f)   Furniture, carpet and large appliances;
         (g)   Engines;
         (h)   Wire or wire fencing;
         (i)   Tires;
         (j)   Hot ashes; or
         (k)   Metal or wood.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.04 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit in any city collection container any item of
garbage, refuse or trash generated on any tract of land for which a use fee, as
provided in §
51.02, has not been paid to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.4) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.05 PROHIBITED ACCUMULATION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any
dwelling, building or premises, or any other place in the city, garbage,
refuse, rubbish or waste of any kind that may be injurious to the public health
or offensive to the residents of the city unless the same is kept in
receptacles not exceeding a 55-gallon capacity and as nearly airtight as may be
practical. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys,
parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse,
garbage, waste or rubbish of any kind. All persons shall have the contents of
their garbage cans removed at least once a week.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit or cause to be
thrown or deposited any refuse, rubbish, waste or garbage on any vacant lot,
public thoroughfare, street, alley or public property.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.5) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   General authority, see Neb. RS 17-121, 17-123, 17-573 and 19-2106
§ 51.06 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals, and if the owner of such animal cannot be found, then such animal
shall be removed by the city and buried by and at the expense of the city. Dead
animals shall not be buried within the corporate limits of the city, nor within
one mile thereof, nor in or above the course of groundwater that is used for
drinking purposes by the city or its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.6)
Statutory reference:
   General authority, see Neb. RS 17-121, 17-123, 17-573 and 19-2106
§ 51.07 BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to burn any
garbage, rubbish, refuse or waste on any lot, tract of land, street or alley
within the corporate limits, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit fire set in
performance of any official duty of any public officer if the fire is necessary
for one or more of the following reasons or purposes:
      (1)   For the prevention of a fire hazard which cannot be abated by any
other means;
      (2)   For the instruction of public firefighters or industrial employees
under supervision of the City Fire Department; and
      (3)   For the protection of the public health and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.7) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.08 LIQUIDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   No person shall deposit liquids and hazardous materials, contaminated or
polluted liquids or hazardous substances except at such times and in such
locations as may be specified by the operator of the city disposal ground; and
all such deposits shall be immediately covered.
(Prior Code, § 3-4.8) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Provisions part of consumer’s contract
   
52.003   Where regulations apply
   
52.004   Authority in relation to other regulations or ordinances
   
52.005   Abatement procedure
Service Connect
   
52.020   Fee
   
52.021   Utility deposit
   
52.022   Connection
   
52.023   Plumbing required
Use Regulations
   
52.035   Pipes
   
52.036   Unsafe connection prohibited
   
52.037   Backflow prevention devices required
   
52.038   Resale prohibited
   
52.039   Tampering prohibited
   
52.040   Repairs
   
52.041   Excavations
   
52.042   Shut-off boxes
   
52.043   Contamination prohibited
   
52.044   Water use by construction contractors
   
52.045   Waste prohibited
   
52.046   Fire hydrants
Wellhead Protection
   
52.060   Prohibition of drilling of private wells within corporate city limits
   
52.061   Procedure to obtain permit
   
52.062   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated
distances from city water sources prohibited
   
52.063   Contamination sources
   
52.064   Wellhead protection area
Rates and Billing
   
52.075   Rates
   
52.076   Lien
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids into the distributing system of
the city from any source other than its intended source.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in, the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
   WASTE. Any one or more of the following events:
      (1)   Where one or more property line(s) of the premises abuts the right-
of-way of a paved city street, waste shall occur in the event that water in any
quantity observable by the human eye shall run, flow or fall onto the paved
portion of the city street.
      (2)   Where one or more property line of the premises abuts the right-of-
way of a city alley or an unpaved city street, waste shall occur in the event
that water in any quantity observable by the human eye shall run, flow or fall
onto a city alley or onto the traveled portion of an unpaved city street.
      (3)   Where one or more property line of the premises abuts the right-of-
way of a state highway or a county road, waste shall occur in the event that
water in any quantity observable by the human eye shall run, flow or fall onto
the right-of-way of the state highway or county road.
   WATER. Water supplied through the city waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.1)
§ 52.002 PROVISIONS PART OF CONSUMER’S CONTRACT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be considered a part of the contract by
which any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or other customer
is supplied with water through the city waterworks; and any person, firm,
partnership, association, corporation or other customer who receives water
through the city waterworks shall be considered and held to be bound thereby.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.2)
§ 52.003 WHERE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   The provisions of these regulations shall apply to all land within the
corporate limits of the city; and that portion of the unincorporated area
within one mile of the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.25)
§ 52.004 AUTHORITY IN RELATION TO OTHER REGULATIONS OR ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this section shall supersede any land use regulation which
allows the installation of a potential contaminant source on a parcel of land.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow the installation of any
category of contamination source which is restricted or prohibited by any
federal, state or local law, statute, regulation or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.26)
§ 52.005 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In the event any of the above-described facilities are installed or operated
without first having obtained a permit from the city and/or within the
designated number of feet from any municipal water supply, then such facilities
shall be deemed a nuisance and the City Council shall abate such facility as a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.27)
SERVICE CONNECT
§ 52.020 FEE.
   Applications to make water connection with the city water system shall be
made in writing to the City Clerk upon forms provided by the City Clerk and
shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of the
provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of city water by the
applicant. The applications must be signed by the owner or authorized agent of
the owner of the property to be served and be filed in the office of the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.3)
§ 52.021 UTILITY DEPOSIT.
   A deposit in such amount as shall be set by the Mayor and City Council from
time to time by resolution shall be made with each such application; and the
deposit shall be retained by the city until service to the applicant is
discontinued permanently or until one year has elapsed, whichever shall occur
first, at which time the deposit shall be returned to the applicant, less any
amount still due the city for water service.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.4)
§ 52.022 CONNECTION.
   (A)   (1)   No connection with a city water main shall be made without a
permit being issued and 24 hours’ notice having been given to the City Clerk,
whose duty it shall be to notify the proper city employee. All such connections
shall be made, and all such work shall be done, at the expense of the applicant
and in accordance with city specifications. All such connections shall be made
under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent, or such other city
employee as the Utilities Superintendent shall designate; and no connections
shall be covered until the Utilities Superintendent, or such other city
employee as the Utilities Superintendent shall designate, has inspected and
approved the work.
      (2)   Applications for such connections must be made to the City Clerk,
and a fee in such amount as shall be set by the Mayor and City Council from
time to time by resolution shall be paid for each connection. Applicants for
water service whose property is located outside the city limits but within one
mile of the city limits may contract with the city for water service to the
property; provided, that if in the judgment of the Mayor and Council the
projected amount of water which would be furnished to the applicant’s property
may cause the city to exceed its allocation for water as established by the
Upper Republican Natural Resources District, or may cause the capacity of the
city’s water distribution to be exceeded, then such applicant shall not be
permitted to contract with the city for water service; and provided, further,
that the applicant shall first have installed all necessary water lines and
connections from the applicant’s property to the city water main, which shall
be done at the expense of the applicant and in accordance with city
specifications.
   (B)   The city may apply to the Upper Republican Natural Resources District
for an increased allocation to fulfill the applicant’s projected water usage.
Applicants for water service whose property is located more than one mile
outside the city limits shall not be permitted to contract with the city for
water service. The city shall not incur any cost or expense beyond its
commercial mains in providing the means of such service inside and outside its
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.5)
§ 52.023 PLUMBING REQUIRED.
   No water from the city waterworks shall be turned on for service in premises
in which the plumbing does not comply with city ordinances; provided, that
water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject
to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.6)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.035 PIPES.
   (A)   All service pipes from the mains to the premises served shall be
installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be served or the
applicant for the service. Such installations shall be made under the
inspection of the city enforcement officer.
   (B)   No service shall be installed unless it conforms to city ordinances,
rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.7)
§ 52.036 UNSAFE CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No customer or any other person shall cause, allow or create any physical
connection between the city waterworks and any pipe, pump, hydrant, tank, steam
condensate return, engine jacket, heat exchanger, lawn sprinkler, other water
supply or any other connection, whereby potentially unsafe or contamination
materials may be discharged or drawn into the city waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.8) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Upon determining that a potential backflow or backsiphonage
hazard exists, the Utilities Superintendent may require the customer to install
and maintain at the customer’s expense a properly located backflow prevention
device appropriate to the potential hazard and approved by the Utilities
Superintendent.
      (2)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent
to install the backflow prevention device. The application shall contain at a
minimum the name and address of the applicant, the type of potential backflow
or backsiphonage hazard requiring protection and the type of backflow
prevention device to be installed, including brand and model number.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the
application based upon his or her opinion as to whether such device will
protect the city waterworks from potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
   (C)   The installation of any backflow prevention device shall be done in
accordance with all provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   The Utilities Superintendent shall, at least one time every year,
certify that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator if the device is
equipped with a test port.
   (E)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
Mayor and to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.9)
§ 52.038 RESALE PROHIBITED.
   No water from the city waterworks shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient thereof to any premises other than that for which application has
been made except in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.10) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.039 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to tamper
with, alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or supply system.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.11) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.040 REPAIRS.
   All repairs of service pipes and plumbing systems of buildings shall be made
by and at the expense of the owner or owners of the premises served; provided,
that repairs of that part of any water service pipe which extends from the city
main to the shut-off box or the edge of the city right-of-way, whichever is the
lesser distance, shall be made by and at the expense of the city, except that
the city may at its election install a new water service pipe from the closest
water main to the shut-off box, including the cost of the shut-off box, rather
than repair the existing line. The city may, in case of an emergency, repair
any part of any service pipe; and if this is done on that part of any pipe
which is not the city’s responsibility, the cost of such repair work shall be
repaid to the city by the owner or owners of the premises served.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.12)
§ 52.041 EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made
in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to making excavations in
streets; provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any service pipe in the
same excavation with, or directly over, any drain pipe or sewer pipe.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.13) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.042 SHUT-OFF BOXES.
   Shut-off boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every new or updated
service pipe, and it shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk
line where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are
easily accessible and shall be protected from frost.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.14)
§ 52.043 CONTAMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place in or near or around the city waterworks system any
dirt, filth, impure substance or other substance or fluid by which the water
shall be rendered impure, unpalatable or dangerous for human or animal
consumption.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.15) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.044 WATER USE BY CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS.
   During the construction of any building and before any water is installed as
provided in this subchapter, the contractor so constructing such building may
be permitted to use city water by making application therefor and paying the
fee prescribed by the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.16)
§ 52.045 WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, manager or any
other person in possession of premises supplied with water to waste, or cause
or allow to be wasted, water supplied to that premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.17) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose extinguishing fires are hereby declared to be
public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members of
the City Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or Assistant Fire
Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any of the
hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to interfere with the
hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.18) Penalty, see §
52.999
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
§ 52.060 PROHIBITION OF DRILLING OF PRIVATE WELLS WITHIN CORPORATE CITY LIMITS.
   The Mayor and City Council declare that unregulated private domestic water
wells within the corporate limits of the city pose a serious and substantial
risk of harm to the public health of the residents of the city. Further, these
wells may be interconnected at unknown points with the public water supply
system. Further, unregulated domestic water wells are frequently accessible for
human consumption despite no regulation requiring proof of safety. It is
declared to be the public policy of the city to prohibit the construction of
private domestic water supplies so as to protect the public health and safety
of the city, as authorized by Neb. RS 17-529.
   (A)   Private wells already in existence at the time of passage of this
chapter may remain but shall be subject to inspection and regulation which may
require the installation of backflow protectors and testing of water in
accordance with NHHS safety requirements.
   (B)   Any person or entity may apply for a permit to drill a private well
solely for the purpose of geothermal energy. Such permit shall be approved or
denied by City Council following its review and investigation to determine if
public health and safety concerns can be met. If approved, geothermal wells
shall be subject to monitoring and regulation by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.21)
§ 52.061 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §
52.060, the owner of the property on which the proposed quality is to be
located must make application on the proper form provided by the governing body
of the city. Such application must be presented to the City Council at any
regular or special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person
desiring to drill or operate any of the above-described facilities, the City
Council shall approve or deny said permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.22)
§ 52.062 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED
DISTANCES FROM CITY WATER SOURCES PROHIBITED.
   Under no circumstances shall the City Council approve any permit to drill or
operate any of the below described facilities (within the indicated number of
feet from any city municipal water well).
Category Distance
Category                                                           Distance
Chemical or petroleum product storage                              500 feet
Corral                                                             500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                                          1,000 feet
Land application of municipal/industrial waste material            1,000 feet
Pit toilet/vault toilet                                            500 feet
Sanitary landfill/dump                                             500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                                          100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                                                100 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                                             100 feet
Sewage lagoon                                                      1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                                             500 feet
Sewage wet well                                                    500 feet
Underground disposal system (septic system, cesspool and the like) 500 feet
Wastewater holding tanks                                           500 feet
Water well                                                         1,000 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 3-2.23)
§ 52.063 CONTAMINATION SOURCES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to erect or construct a new contamination source
or enlarge an existing one shall file an application for a permit with the
Utilities Superintendent on a form furnished by the city for that purpose. The
Utilities Superintendent may approve a permit which conforms to the distance
requirements of this section. If, however, in the opinion of the Utilities
Superintendent, the proposed use poses a risk of contaminating a city water
supply well, he or she shall deny the permit. The applicant may appeal the
decision of the Utilities Superintendent to the City Council by filing an
appeal with the City Clerk within 30 days of the Utilities Superintendent’s
decision. Appeal of the decision of the governing body shall be to the county
district court within 30 days of the governing body’s decision.
   (B)   The City Council may consider location of potential contaminant
sources in a closer proximity than the minimum distances listed above. Approval
for such location will be given when circumstances require such location and
when, in the opinion of the City Council and the State Department of Health, a
professional engineer, retained by the applicant, demonstrates that such
location will not constitute a pollution hazard to the city’s water supply.
   (C)   Fees for contamination source permits shall be established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.24)
§ 52.064 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the
surface and subsurface area surrounding a water well or well field, supplying a
public water system, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move
toward and reach such water or wellhead.
   (B)   The city designates a wellhead protection area boundary for the
purpose of protection of the public water supply system. The boundaries of the
wellhead protection area are groundwater section wellhead protection program,
2002 map. This delineation is based upon the map prepared by the State
Department of Environmental Quality (NDEQ) presented to the city on December
20, 2002, and is on file in the offices of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.29)
RATES AND BILLING
§ 52.075 RATES.
   All property upon which any building has been or may hereafter be erected
having a connection with any mains or pipes which are or may hereafter be
constructed and used in connection with the city waterworks system shall pay
such rates as the Mayor and City Council may from time to time prescribe by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.19)
§ 52.076 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for water shall be a lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. If the consumer of water whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises, and the City Clerk has notice of this, then notice may be mailed by
regular mail to the owner of the premises, if his or her address is known, to
the City Clerk, whenever such bills remain unpaid for a period of 60 days after
it has been rendered. The failure of the City Clerk to mail any notice, or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. The City Attorney, upon direction of the Mayor and City
Council, shall be authorized and directed to institute legal proceedings, in
the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over such matters,
against any property for which the water bill has remained unpaid 60 days after
it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.20)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating or refusing to obey any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined the amount of $500 for a first offense, the amount of
$500 for a second offense and the amount of $500 for a third or subsequent
offense. Upon conviction of any person for an offense at any premises, the city
may disconnect the water service to that premises in accordance with the
procedure set forth in Chapter 50; and water service shall not be reconnected
to that premises until application has been made in writing to the City Clerk,
and payment in full has been made of any fee or deposit required by city
ordinance for connecting or reconnecting the water service.
      (2)   If any person wastes, or causes or allows to be wasted, water
supplied to any premises outside the city limits, the city may disconnect the
water service to that premises in accordance with the procedure set forth in
this chapter; and water service shall not be reconnected to that premises for
the benefit of that person until application has been made in writing to the
City Clerk and the application for reconnection has been approved by the Mayor
and City Council. In the event the Mayor and Council vote to approve the
application for reconnection, water service shall not be reconnected to that
premises for the benefit of that person until payment in full has been made by
that person of any fee or deposit required by city ordinance for connecting or
reconnecting the water service, payment in full has been made by that person
for the purchase and installation of a water meter on the premises and an
agreement has been signed by that person so that person shall be billed for
water at that premises at the city rate for metered water use outside the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.28)
   (B)   Any person or entity, including any well contractor, who commences or
engages in construction of a private domestic water well within city shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount not
exceeding $1,000 for each such offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.21)
   (C)   In addition to the abatement procedure in §
52.005, any person violating any of the terms of this chapter is hereby
determined to be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor as the same is defined by
state statute. The penalty for such violation shall be that, as defined by
state law for the violation of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2.27)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
   
53.01   Definition
   
53.02   Sewer Commissioner
   
53.03   Sewer construction; repairs
   
53.04   Rates
   
53.05   Lien
   
53.06   Foreclosure of lien
§ 53.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership or unincorporated
association.
(Prior Code, § 3-3.1)
§ 53.02 SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Duties, bond not required. The enforcement officer shall be City Sewer
Commissioner.
   (B)   Additional duties. The duties of the enforcement officer shall also be
as follows:
      (1)   To keep an accurate and complete record of connections made to the
city sewerage system and keep posted to date a sectional map of Y branches
furnished him or her for this purpose;
      (2)   To keep the city sewerage system and appurtenances clean and in
good working order;
      (3)   To issue permits for sewer connections;
      (4)   To inspect sewer connections;
      (5)   To enforce all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations relating to
sewer construction, repair and operation;
      (6)   To prepare rules and regulations governing sewer services with
respect to privies, cesspools or septic tanks, when permitted; construction of
house drains; specifications for construction of all old plumbing work; gas
water heaters, including those of the instantaneous, automatically controlled
type; quality of connection, separate connections, house drains, soil pipes,
waste pipes, sand traps, steam exhaust, blow-off or drip pipe, urinal troughs,
bar wastes, grease traps, garage wastes, drain, soil waste or vent pipes, water
closets in buildings, old or condemned plumbing, openings for future use; minor
repairs; and any or all other matters relevant to plumbing which affect the
public health or safety; and
      (7)   To submit the rules and regulations thus prepared for consideration
of the Mayor and City Council; and when adopted by the Mayor and Council, such
rules and regulations shall be promulgated according to law and thereafter be
deemed and considered a part of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-3.2)
§ 53.03 SEWER CONSTRUCTION; REPAIRS.
   All private property within the city located upon any street or alley
through which, opposite or abutting said property, runs or hereafter shall run
any main, belt line or lateral sanitary sewer shall be equipped with a proper
connection to said main, belt line or lateral sanitary sewer for the disposal
of all sewage. It shall be the duty of the owner of any such private property
so situated, upon ten days’ notice as hereinafter provided, to make or cause to
be made or to maintain or repair proper connection with the sewer main, belt
line or lateral and to install or cause to be installed or to maintain or to
repair proper sewer pipe connections to convey such refuse into the main, belt
line or lateral; provided, that repairs of that part of any connection to any
sewer main, belt line or lateral which extends from the main, belt line or
lateral to the edge of the city right-of-way shall be made by and at the
expense of the city. If the owner of such property shall fail or neglect for
ten days after the service of notice to comply with the notice, then the City
Sewer Commissioner, or his or her agent, shall cause the same to be done, and
the cost thereof when certified by the City Sewer Commissioner to the Mayor and
City Council shall be assessed by the Mayor and Council against the property as
a special assessment, the same to be collected as other special assessments and
special taxes as provided by law, or the cost may be recovered by civil suit
brought by the City Attorney, upon the direction of the Mayor and Council, in
the name of the city against the owner. The notice hereinbefore referred to
shall be in writing and shall be served by the City Superintendent upon the
owner or owners of record of such property, either by personal service,
certified mail service or constructive service. Constructive service may be had
with respect to the notice by causing its publication to be made once in a
legal newspaper published in and of general circulation in the city. The notice
shall describe the real estate involved and the action required to be taken and
shall notify the owner or owners that the owner or owners are required to
comply with the notice within ten days after the service or publication
thereof, and that if the owner or owners fail to comply with the notice, the
City Sewer Commissioner will cause the work to be done and will certify the
cost thereof to the Mayor and Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-3.3)
§ 53.04 RATES.
   All property upon which any building has been or may hereafter be erected
having a connection with any lines or pipes which are or may hereafter be
constructed and used in connection with the city sewer system shall pay such
rates as the Mayor and City Council may from time to time prescribe by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-3.4)
§ 53.05 LIEN.
   Use fees for the furnishing of sanitary sewer service shall be a lien upon
the property served as provided by statute. Whenever a use fee remains unpaid
for a period of 30 days after it has been rendered, notice shall be mailed by
regular mail to the consumer whose use fee is unpaid; and if the consumer is
not the owner of the property, and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice
shall also be mailed by regular mail to the owner of the property, if the
owner’s address is known to the Clerk. The failure of the Clerk to mail any
such notice, or the failure of any person to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid use fees as set forth in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-3.5)
§ 53.06 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid use fees for the furnishing of
sanitary sewer service may be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds
of such sale shall be applied to pay the unpaid use fees, after deducting
costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure
shall be by action brought in the name of the city. The City Attorney is
authorized, upon direction of the Mayor and City Council, to institute such
action in any court having jurisdiction over such matters, against any property
for which the use fee for the furnishing of sanitary sewer service has remained
unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 3-3.6)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State Criminal Code incorporated by reference
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.04   Procedures applicable to violations
   
70.05   Summons destruction
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of peace officers, see Neb. RS 60-683
   Powers and duties of state patrol, see Neb. RS 81-2005
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.01 STATE CRIMINAL CODE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Except for the penalty sections, the State Criminal Code, including
the statutes generally found in Neb. RS Chapter 28, together with all
subsequent amendments thereto, as adopted by the state relating to crimes and
punishments are incorporated by reference into this section and made a part of
this chapter as though spread at large herein, except those provisions in
conflict with this chapter when the City Council has the authority to alter
such regulations.
   (B)   One copy of the State Criminal Code and amendments shall be on file
with the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
State Department of Transportation or City Council as a school crossing zone
through the use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the “Manual,” but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic control device identifying the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE and continues until
a sign or traffic control device indicates that the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE has
ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the
purposes of travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., placed
or erected by the authority of the City Council or any official having
jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or
regulation regulating traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a
misdemeanor or a felony or, in this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.03 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers, to enforce the provisions of the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb.
RS 60-601 et seq., and this title, including the specific enforcement of
maximum speed limits, and any other state or city law regulating the operation
of vehicles or the use of the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act, Neb. RS 60-462 et seq., or this title or of any other
law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and
when designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with the law or,
in the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as the conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for the correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
§ 70.04 PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever any person is arrested for a violation of any provision of this
title, the procedures set out in state law shall, except as otherwise provided
by this title, govern.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.3)
§ 70.05 SUMMONS DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up or destroy a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by an enforcement officer or to disregard the summons
contained on such tag and fail to appear in court as directed by said tag.
(Prior Code, § 4-1.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   State statutes adopted
   
71.02   Jaywalking
   
71.03   Crosswalks
   
71.04   Signs; signals
   
71.05   Truck routes
   
71.06   Riding on outside of vehicle
   
71.07   U-turns
   
71.08   Engine brakes
Speed Limits
   
71.20   Basic rule
   
71.21   Maximum limits
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits schedule, see
Chapter 74
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED.
   Except for the penalty provisions, the city hereby adopts Neb. RS Chapter
39, Article 6 “Highways and Bridges” and Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 6, “State
Rules of the Road” (as they may be amended) as though same were fully restated
in this section in their entirety. Ordinance reference to any statute in this
title is made by stating “Oshkosh Code Section (restate the state section). For
example, a violation referenced as “Oshkosh Code No. 60-6,131” is a code
violation defined in Neb. RS 60-6,131 and involves driving on the right half of
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.1)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 71.02 JAYWALKING.
   No pedestrian shall cross any street between adjacent intersections with
traffic signals or any street designated and posted by the City Council at a
place other than a crosswalk, nor shall any pedestrian cross any street
intersection diagonally; provided, that every pedestrian who crosses any other
street at any point other than a crosswalk shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,154
§ 71.03 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at intersections where
there is danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such other places as
it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.3)
§ 71.04 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in any street or alley
under the municipality’s jurisdiction for regulating or prohibiting traffic
thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the regulation or
prohibition, the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed, and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.4) (Ord. 00-05, passed 3-28-2000) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic control devices, see Neb. RS 60-6,118 through 60-6,121
§ 71.05 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the municipality. The City
Council shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.5) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.06 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to permit any person to
ride on the running board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to ride on the running board, hood, top or
fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.6) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.7) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 ENGINE BRAKES.
    (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, or cause
to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical device operated by
compressed air and used for the purposes of assisting braking on any vehicle,
also known as engine braking. It shall be a defense to any alleged violation of
this section that the operator of the vehicle used such brakes to reasonably
avoid a collision or in response to other emergency situations.
   (B)   The governing body shall cause notices to be posted or erect signs
indicating this prohibition.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-10-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 BASIC RULE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual
and potential hazards then existing.
   (B)   A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when approaching
and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when approaching and
going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.20, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-
6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced pursuant
to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless-surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the City Council pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-6,188 or 60-6,190.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
division (A) or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with §
71.08 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 483, passed 10-10-2024)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.03   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
72.04   Certain vehicles prohibited; exceptions
   
72.05   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.06   Time limits
   
72.07   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.08   Painting of curbs
Parking for Handicapped Persons
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
72.22   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
72.23   Permit issuance
   
72.24   Motor vehicle permit issuance
   
72.25   Permits; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
72.26   Period valid; renewal; fee
   
72.27   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.40   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
   
72.41   Citation
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Restricted parking schedule, see
Chapter 75
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the City Council regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or
parking all vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or
a portion of a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject
to such regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than
a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible, and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of an overall length of
25 feet or more to stop or park such vehicle of any street when angle parking
is permitted, except for the purpose of loading or unloading freight; and,
within the congested district, no such vehicle shall be stopped or parked,
except in alleys for the purpose of loading and unloading freight between the
hours of 8:30 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., unless permission is granted from a law
enforcement official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator or owner of any truck tractor,
semi-trailer, petroleum transport truck or automobile with attached trailer
with an overall length of 25 feet or more, including load, whether loaded or
unloaded, except while loading or unloading its contents, to park or leave such
truck standing within 75 feet of any building, of which any portion is used for
dwelling purposes.
   (C)   Recreational equipment, such as boats, boat trailers, travel trailers,
pick up camper or coaches, motor homes, tent trailers and the like, shall be
parked on any city street for not to exceed 48 hours.
   (D)   (1)   No major recreational equipment, such as boats, boat trailers,
travel trailers, pick up campers, coaches, motor homes, tent trailer and the
like, shall be parked or stored on any lot in a residential or commercial
district except in a carport or enclosed building or behind the nearest portion
of a building to the street; provided, that such equipment may be parked
anywhere on a residential or commercial premises for not to exceed 48 hours
during loading or unloading.
      (2)   No such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential or commercial lot,
nor on any city street, or in any location not approved for such use.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.8) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public
place within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due
to a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race
the motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of
the city.
   (B)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway,
except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted to indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
Penalty, see §
72.99
PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device; any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems; any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association; and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this section
regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons; or
      (2)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 and 60-3,113.03) (Prior Code, § 4-3.9)
Statutory reference:
   Infractions defined; citations issued, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01
§ 72.21 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Council may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons whose motor
vehicles display the distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or
disabled persons pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113, handicapped or disabled persons
whose motor vehicles display a distinguishing license plate issued to a
handicapped or disabled person by another state, such other handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, as certified
by the city, whose motor vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 60-
331.01, and such other motor vehicles, as certified by the city, which display
such permit. All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the City Council so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(Neb. RS 18-1736) (Prior Code, § 4-3.10)
§ 72.22 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   (A)   The City Council and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)    Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 60-331.01; and/or
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance
with the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.”
(Neb. RS 18-1737(1)) (Prior Code, § 4-3.11)
§ 72.23 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk shall take an application from a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person, or his or her
parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this section
when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is
parked in such spaces.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the handicapped or disabled person
or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be considered the holder of
the permit.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 or
60-3,113.03.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advance practice registered nurse
certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant or advance practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (D)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.24, but not both.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 and 60-3,113.03) (Prior Code, § 4-3.12)
Statutory reference:
   Application procedure, see Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 and 60-3,113.03
§ 72.24 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces provided
for by this section if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. The parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle
for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of a handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person, and such
person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
designated spaces.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 and 60-3,113.03.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the City Clerk
by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the City Clerk
that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (D)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.23, but not both.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 4-3.13)
§ 72.25 PERMITS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.27. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed upon the
payment of the permit fee.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the City Clerk.
A duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which the
original permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 60-331.01) (Prior Code, § 4-3.14)
§ 72.26 PERIOD VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the expiration of a permanent permit, it may be renewed
pursuant to the provisions of this section and §§
72.23 and
72.24. After September 9, 1995, all permanently issued permits authorized by
this section shall be issued for a period ending September 30 of the third year
following the date of issuance and shall expire on that date, except that an
application for the renewal of a permit filed with the City Clerk within 30
days of the date after its expiration shall be deemed to have been filed prior
to the date of its expiration.
      (2)   The possession of an expired but otherwise valid handicapped
parking permit within 30 days following the date of its expiration shall serve
as a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking
infraction resulting from the absence of a handicapped parking permit arising
during that 30-day period.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this section after September 9, 1995, for
temporarily handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending
not more than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed for a
one-time period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall
be submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Neb. RS 60-331.01 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 4-3.15)
§ 72.27 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A permit issued under this section shall not be transferable and shall
be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which
issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued.
   (B)   No person shall alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued
pursuant to this section. No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit
or knowingly provide false information on an application for a permit.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be cause for suspension of such
permit for a period of six months. At the expiration of such period, a
suspended permit may be renewed upon payment of the permit fee.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (Prior Code, § 4-3.16)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.40 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
§ 72.41 CITATION.
   It shall be the duty of the law enforcement officers of the city, whenever
they observe a violation of this chapter, to attach to the vehicle at the time
the vehicle is found in violation, a citation to the owner or operator thereof
that the vehicle is or has been parked in violation of a provision of this
chapter. The citation shall describe the violation and instruct the owner or
operator to report to the City Clerk’s office in regard to the violation.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.22)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Schedule of fines; violations. Any violator of this chapter
appearing at the City Hall and desiring to plead and waive court appearance
shall present the official citation and pay the City Clerk according the
following schedule, based upon elapsed time from the occurrence of the
violation:
         (a)   One to five days, excluding weekends and legal holidays: $5; and
         (b)   Over five days, excluding weekends and legal holidays: $10.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.18)
      (2)   Failure to pay within five days; notice. Should any such fine and
administrative costs not be paid within the five-day period as noted in
division (A)(1) above, the City Clerk shall send to the owner of the motor
vehicle to which the official law enforcement citation was affixed a written
notice informing the owner of the violation and warning that he or she will be
held responsible for the fine and that in the event that the violator or owner
of the vehicle to which the official law enforcement citation was attached
fails to appear at the City Clerk’s office within ten days, excluding weekends
and legal holidays, after the date of issuance of such written notice, a
complaint will be issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.19)
      (3)   Failure to pay after notice; prosecution. In the event that a
violator fails to appear in response to notice within ten days of the notice,
excluding weekends and legal holidays, the violator or the owner of the
offending motor vehicle shall be liable to prosecution in county court for the
offense or offenses charged and subject to the penalty provided for in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.20)
      (4)   Presumption. In any prosecution charging a violation of any
provision of this chapter, proof that the particular vehicle described in the
citation was parked in violation of this chapter, together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was at the time of the parking the registered
owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption
that the registered owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or placed
the vehicle at the point where and for the time during which the violation
occurred.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.21)
   (B)   Any person in violation of the provision of §
72.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined as provided by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.8)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Toy Vehicles
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation
   
73.03   Limitations
All-Terrain and Utility-Type Vehicles
   
73.15   Definitions
   
73.16   Operation generally
   
73.17   License or permit required
   
73.18   Exceptions
   
73.19   Operation on highways
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Speed limit provisions, see Chapters 71 and 74
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
BICYCLES AND TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled solely by human power, upon which any person
may ride, and having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 14 inches
in diameter;
   TOY VEHICLE.
      (1)   Skate boards; coasters; roller skates; sleds; skis; self-propelled
scooters; self-propelled electric and gas propelled vehicles which are built
and designed for children less than ten years of age; and vehicles having two
tandem wheel vehicles which have a total wheel and tire diameter of less than
14 inches, an electric engine which is capable of producing a maximum speed of
less than ten mph and which is not designed for off-road use.
      (2)   TOY VEHICLES do not include motorcycles, motor scooters whose
engine allows speeds exceeding ten mph or which are designed for other than
child use, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled, personal
mobility devices or vehicles running upon rails.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb RS 60-636 through 60-640 and 60-6354
§ 73.02 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle or toy vehicle on a street or
highway within the municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle or toy vehicle shall be operated faster than is reasonable
and proper.
   (C)   Every bicycle or toy vehicle shall be operated with reasonable regard
to the safety of the operator and any other persons upon the streets and
highways.
   (D)   Persons operating bicycles or toy vehicles shall observe all traffic
signs and stop at all stop signs.
   (E)   No bicycle or toy vehicle shall be operated on any street or highway
from sunset to sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for
not less than 500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100
feet and 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of the lawful lower beams
of headlights on a motor vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to such red reflector.
   (F)   All bicycles and toy vehicles operated in the municipality shall be
equipped with a brake which is able to stop the movement of the bicycle and toy
vehicle within a reasonable distance.
   (G)   Any person who operates a bicycle or toy vehicle upon a street or
highway shall not ride more than single file except on parts of streets or
highways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (H)   Any person who operates a bicycle or toy vehicle upon a roadway at
less than the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under
conditions then existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-
hand edge of the roadway as practicable except when:
      (1)   Overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
      (2)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at an
intersection;
      (3)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
      (4)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for a
bicycle or toy vehicle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the
lane; or
      (5)   Lawfully operating a bicycle or toy vehicle on the paved shoulders
of a highway included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-
6,142.
   (I)   No person shall operate a bicycle or toy vehicle on the sidewalks
within the business district.
   (J)   No package, article or bundle shall be carried on any bicycle or toy
vehicle, if said object prevents the rider from correctly operating the vehicle
(i.e., keeping both hands upon the handlebars).
   (K)   No person riding upon any bicycle or toy vehicle shall attach the same
or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling
upon any bicycle or toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or his
or her bicycle or toy vehicle to such vehicle so driven and operated by him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.11) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,315, 60-6,316, 60-6,317 and 60-
6,318
§ 73.03 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall allow the operation of bicycles or toy
vehicles in violation of the State Rules of the Road (Neb. RS 60-601 et seq.),
including the operation or actual physical control of a motorized vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol or drugs except as specifically allowed within
this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,196 et seq.
ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 73.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way, which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof if open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches nor more that 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side by side.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or low-speed
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.13)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-624 and 60-6,355
§ 73.16 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle may be operated on
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated
only between the hours of sunset and sunrise and shall not be operated at a
speed in excess of the posted speed limit.
      (2)   When operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle as
authorized in division (A) above, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle
shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which
extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such
vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
      (3)   If the vehicle is issued with safety belts, the belts shall be
utilized by the operator in motion.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.13) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle as
authorized in §
73.16(A) shall have proof upon their person of:
   (A)   A valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit as provided by
Neb. RS 60-4,126;
   (B)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or utility-
type vehicle while operating the vehicle on a street or highway. The person
operating such vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such request; and
   (C)   Operator must be at least 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.13)
§ 73.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   All-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with §§
73.16(B) and 73.17 on streets and highways in parades which have been
authorized by the state or any department, board, commission or political
subdivision of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.13)
§ 73.19 OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with one than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. This subchapter authorizes and applies to
operation of all-terrain or utility-type vehicles only on a street or highway
other than a controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
 
   (B)   Subject to division (A) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle without
complying with §§
73.16(B) and 73.17 only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when
crossing is made.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.13) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates any provision of §§
73.15 through
73.19 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of the municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.13)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
Cross-reference:
   Speed limit provisions, see
Chapter 71
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater than the
following.
 
Street             Location                                         Speed Limit
                  Alleys                                           10 mph
                   From west corporate limit (530 feet west of West
Highway US-26/N-92 Fourth Street) to east corporate limit (2,110    40 mph
                   feet east of East First Street)
Main Street        Between “A” and “H” Avenues              20 mph
 
   (B)   Vehicles approaching railway stations, churches, public buildings or
crowded spaces must do so in a cautious manner and always on the proper side of
the street and in no case shall the speed be greater than 20 mph when entering
such an area.
(Prior Code, § 4-2.8)
   (C)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with the statutes of the state and ordinances of the city, or when
otherwise posted, no person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley
or other place within the city at a rate of speed greater than:
 
Location                 Speed Limit
Any alleyway             10 mph
Any business district    20 mph
Any residential district 25 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 5-4.1)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Basic speed rule, see Neb. RS 60-6,185
   General speed limit, see Neb. RS 60-6,186
   State, county and local authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle used for the
purpose of vending merchandise, meats, vegetable or confectionary or other
vehicle commonly known as peddler’s car or wagon, to park or stand on any
street longer than ten minutes on Central Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 4-3.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Duties of City Administrator
   
90.02   Care of park property; conduct prohibited
   
90.03   Hours of operation
Library
   
90.15   Funding
   
90.16   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.17   Grounds and building
   
90.18   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
90.19   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.20   Cost of use
   
90.21   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.22   Annual report
   
90.23   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.24   Donations
   
90.25   Improper book removal
City Swimming Pool
   
90.40   Operation and funding
   
90.41   Rules and regulations
City Auditorium
   
90.55   Ownership
   
90.56   Rentals
   
90.57   Rules and regulations
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 90.01 DUTIES OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Supervision. All city parks shall be operated and maintained under the
supervision of the City Administrator.
   (B)   Employees. The City Administrator shall have supervision over all
employees concerning the maintenance of the city parks, and said employees
shall perform their duties under his or her supervision.
   (C)   Enforcement of ordinances. The City Administrator shall see to the
enforcement of all ordinances relating to the city parks. He or she shall
enforce all rules relating to the use of the city parks.
(Prior Code, § 5-1.14)
§ 90.02 CARE OF PARK PROPERTY; CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   On park property, it shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or
remove any building, bridge, table, bench, fireplace, railing, fence, paving or
paving material, water line or other public utility or part thereof, sign or
notice, placard, monument, stake, post or other boundary marker, or any other
structure, equipment, facility or park property whatsoever, either real or
personal;
 
   (B)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and
sanitary condition. No person over five years of age shall use any restroom or
washroom designated for the opposite sex;
   (C)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the water
of any fountain, pond, lake, stream or other body of water in or adjacent to
any city park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain going into said
waters, any substance, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the
pollution of said waters;
   (D)   Have brought in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass,
ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse or other
trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or contiguous
to any city park or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be placed
in the proper receptacles, where receptacles are provided; and where
receptacles are not provided, all such refuse or trash shall be carried away by
the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the municipal parks or other public
grounds; or
   (E)   Maliciously or willfully cut down, injure or destroy any tree, plant
or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of the city parks and recreational areas.
(Prior Code, § 5-1.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Minors under the age of 16 years are not to be allowed in the city
parks from the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. The city parks shall be open to
the public during such hours as the Mayor and City Council shall from time to
time determine by resolution. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons,
other than city personnel conducting city business, to occupy or be present in
a city park during any hours in which the park is not open to the public. Any
section or part of a city park may be declared closed to the public by the City
Administrator at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or
at regular or stated intervals.
   (B)   The City Administrator and/or pool manager may close the swimming pool
during inclement weather, where unsanitary water conditions exist or for
special events.
(Prior Code, § 5-1.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
LIBRARY
§ 90.15 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city, annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The Fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   (1)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any
way acquired for the erection, maintenance or support of the public library
shall be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other
funds of the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon
vouchers signed by the President of the Library Board and authenticated by the
Secretary of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other
purpose or in any other manner.
      (2)   The city may establish a public library sinking fund for major
capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 90.16 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care and custody
of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that
purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before the
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.17 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for a
library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 90.18 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library, upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   (1)   Before any such sale is made, the Library Board shall advertise
the sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper
published or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The
notice shall set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description
of such real estate and the right to reject any and all bids.
      (2)   If the bid or bids have not been rejected, then the real estate
shall be sold to the highest bidder for cash, and the Chairperson of the
Library Board, upon resolution of the Library Board directing him or her so to
do, shall convey the real estate to the purchaser of such real estate upon his
or her payment of his or her bid.
      (3)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance against the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the
city voting at the last regular city election and is filed with the City
Council, the property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold.
If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.19 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board. The
President and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.20 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with the rules and regulations established for
the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, the use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.21 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.22 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in
each year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on
the last day of the prior fiscal year.
   (B)   The report shall show all money received and credited or expended; the
number of materials held, including books, video and audio materials, software
programs and materials in other formats; the number of periodical subscriptions
on record, including newspapers; the number of materials added and the number
withdrawn from the collection during the year; the number of materials
circulated during the year; and other statistics, information and suggestions
as the Library Board may deem of general interest or as the City Council may
require.
   (C)   The report shall be verified by affidavit of the President and
Secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.23 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the
Library Board and any court costs and attorneys’ fees may be recovered in a
civil action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted
in the name of the Library Board.
   (B)   (1)   Money, other than any court costs and attorneys’ fees, collected
in such actions shall be placed in the Treasury of the city to the credit of
the Library Fund.
      (2)   Attorneys’ fees collected pursuant to this section shall be placed
in the Treasury of the city and credited to the budget of the City Attorney’s
office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.24 DONATIONS.
   (A)   Any person may make donations of money, lands or other property for
the benefit of the public library.
   (B)   The title to property so donated may be made to and shall vest in the
Library Board and their successors in office, and the Board shall thereby
become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.25 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CITY SWIMMING POOL
§ 90.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the city swimming pool. The City Council, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and improvements
of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The revenue from
said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund and shall include all gifts,
grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing
personal property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing
the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all times be in the custody
of the City Treasurer. The City Administrator shall manage the swimming pool.
The City Administrator shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
the Swimming Pool Manager and such employees as he or she may deem necessary
and shall pass such rules and regulations for the operation of the swimming
pool as may be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the City
Administrator shall be under the supervision and control of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-1.12)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951 and 17-952
§ 90.41 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Administrator shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and
for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable penalties for
the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-040) (Prior Code, § 5-1.13)
CITY AUDITORIUM
§ 90.55 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and manages the city auditorium through the City Council. The
City Council, for purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance
and improvements on the city auditorium may create a fund known as the
Auditorium Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deed of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the city auditorium. The Auditorium
Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the City Treasurer. The City
Administrator shall have the power to hire and supervise such employees as he
or she may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations for the
operation of the auditorium as may be proper for its efficient management.
(Prior Code, § 5-1.17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
§ 90.56 RENTALS.
   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the auditorium, make a
reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of the
auditorium. The City Administrator shall prescribe rules and regulations for
such rentals subject to the review of the City Council. Rental rates may be
structured for classes of persons and organizations in a reasonable manner;
provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin in the
classification of persons and organizations for rental purposes.
(Neb. RS 17-953) (Prior Code, § 5-1.18)
§ 90.57 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Administrator shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules and regulations for the protection of the city auditorium and the safety
of those using the auditorium facilities. They may provide suitable penalties
for the violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations subject to the
supervision and review of the City Council. All damage suffered by the
auditorium during any rental shall be assessed against the person or
organization responsible for the rental thereof or shall be deducted from the
damage deposit which the City Administrator may in his or her discretion have
required prior to said rental. All rental fees, rules and regulations shall be
on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk at any reasonable
time.
(Neb. RS 17-953) (Prior Code, § 5-1.19)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Nuisance officer
   
91.17   Identifying nuisances
   
91.18   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances
   
91.19   Unsafe buildings
   
91.20   Nuisance trees
   
91.21   Vehicle nuisance abatement
   
91.22   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.35   Enforcement procedure
   
91.36   Administrative procedure
   
91.37   Civil court procedure
   
91.38   Costs and fees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Health and sanitation; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-121
   Nuisances; definition; prevention; abatement; joint and cooperative action
with county, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Weeds; destruction and removal within right-of-way, see Neb. RS 18-1719
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council as the
quarantine officer shall be the chief health officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists of doing any unlawful act or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the city;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly buildings, billboards or other structures, or any
old, abandoned or partially destroyed buildings or structures, or any buildings
or structures commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises on
which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the city or are maintained and kept in such a
manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 NUISANCE OFFICER.
   The city may appoint an individual or organization to identify and enforce
abatement of nuisances with the city. Said individual or organization shall be
identified as the nuisance officer, and said appointment shall be identified by
resolution of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.3)
§ 91.17 IDENTIFYING NUISANCES.
   (A)   The city may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the City
Clerk, shall upon direction of the City Council, notify the nuisance officer of
the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any provision of this
chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
   (B)   The city may request that the nuisance officer audit the city for
nuisances in the city as defined by this code. The nuisance officer shall then
view the property or area for any violations of the nuisances of the city. The
nuisance officer shall not go upon private property for said audit unless
granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected property.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.4)
§ 91.18 CONFIRMING, DOCUMENTING AND PRESENTING NUISANCES.
   (A)   The nuisance officer shall identify and confirm that in his or her
opinion a nuisance exists as defined by federal, state or municipal law.
   (B)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist the nuisance officer
shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence pertinent to
the situation. The nuisance officer will also obtain the legal description of
the property and identify the current owners and, if possible, the occupants of
the property upon which the nuisance exists.
   (C)   The nuisance officer shall then present this information to the city
governing board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation that a
nuisance exists as stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.5)
§ 91.19 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   If the nuisance officer or designated official of the governing body
determines that any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which
is dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause
or aid in the spread of diseases or injury to the health of the occupants of it
or neighboring structures; which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or damage by the
collapse or fall of all or any part of such structure, the written
determination shall be filed with the City Clerk. For the purpose of this
section, the term UNSAFE BUILDING includes any building that is declared unsafe
by the city or one that is defined as unsafe by the International Property
Maintenance Code (in its amended and current form) and any structure declared
by the city to be dangerous to the public health of the residents of the city.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall thereupon serve the owner and occupant of the
premises notice. The violator is given 30 days to remedy the nuisance. The
Clerk or nuisance officer shall also cause the property to be posted of the
violation and shall file a copy of such determination in the office of the
County Register of Deeds. If the unsafe building or structure is an immediate
danger to the health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons, and
the owner fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice, the
city may summarily repair or demolish and remove such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.10)
§ 91.20 NUISANCE TREES.
   Notice to abate and remove tree violations and notice of a right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the city
may have such work completed by the city or by a third-party, and the owner or
occupant shall be responsible for any charges or fees related to such work.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.10)
§ 91.21 VEHICLE NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to remove for private property. Notice of removal may be given
to the owner or occupant of the private property upon which such vehicle is
located and such notice shall request that said vehicle be removed from said
property within 30 days of the date of said notice, and the notice shall advise
that upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the city or its designee
may issue a citation or shall undertake such removal with the cost of removal
to be levied against the owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (B)   Removal after notice.
      (1)   Upon the notice to remove, the owner of the vehicle and the owner
or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either or all
of them, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and
disposition by the city, the owner or occupant of the private property, where
the same is located, shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
      (2)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied
within the 30-day period of compliance, the nuisance officer or his or her
designee shall have the right to take possession of said vehicle and remove it
from the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder or refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property
for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Removal of vehicles from public property. Any motor vehicle, livestock
trailer, farm trailer, flatbed trailer, homemade trailer or pick-up bed
trailer, licensed or unlicensed, left parked on public property for more than
72 hours shall be deemed an abandoned vehicle, and as such a nuisance. After
notice has been affixed to the vehicle for five days, it shall be subject to
removal and impoundment by the city until lawfully claimed or disposed of in
accordance with the laws of the state. In the event of a dangerous or emergency
issue with any vehicle parked on public property, the 72-hour limit and five-
day notice shall be suspended and immediate removal and impoundment authorized.
   (D)   Valuation and title. If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of
abandonment, has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of the vehicle, of
$100 or less, title shall immediately be vested in the city.
   (E)   Duties of the nuisance officer. Except for vehicles governed by
division (B) above, the nuisance officer or designated official shall:
      (1)   Make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such
vehicle;
      (2)   Notify the last registered owner, if any, that the vehicle in
question has been recovered as an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, it
will be sold at public auction after five days from the date such notice was
mailed (if the city is notified that a lien or mortgage exists on said vehicle,
such notice shall also be sent the lien holder or mortgagee); and
      (3)   Proceed to obtain title of the abandoned vehicle in the city’s name
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-1903.
   (F)   Proceeds of sale; disposition. Any proceeds from the sale of an
abandoned vehicle less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the
city without interest for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a period
of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, such proceeds shall
be paid into the General Fund of the city.
   (G)   Liability for removal. Neither the owner, lessee nor occupant of the
premises from which any abandoned vehicle shall be removed, nor the city shall
be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its
removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual agent, or as
a result of any subsequent disposition.
   (H)   Cost of removal and storage. The last registered owner of an abandoned
vehicle shall be liable to the city for the costs of removal and storage of
such vehicle.
   (I)   Redemption of impounded vehicles. The owner of any vehicle seized
under the provisions of this chapter may redeem such vehicle at any time after
its removal but prior to the sale or destruction thereof upon proof of
ownership, presentment of a valid registration certificate, current license
plates and payment to the City Clerk or designated official of such sum as said
official may determine and fix for the actual and reasonable expense of
removal, and any preliminary sale advertising expenses, including a reasonable
amount for storage for each vehicle redeemed.
   (J)   Exception; hobbyist permit. A hobbyist permit for the restoration or
repair of up to two non-operating, wrecked, junked or partially dismantled
vehicles on any premises used for residential purposes may be granted to the
residents of such premises following procedure set forth.
      (1)   Application for a hobbyist permit shall be filed with the City
Clerk in a form provided by the city.
      (2)   Application for a hobbyist permit shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant; and
         (b)   The make, model, year and VIN of each vehicle to be restored or
repaired.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.11) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city or
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece of
ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or
more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the city or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction is
prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
on any lot or piece of ground within the city or within its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or to litter or cause
litter to be deposited or remain thereon, except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to
each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
city shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by
first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
         (b)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to
appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal
with the office of the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within
14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or
appointed officer as designated in the ordinance.
         (c)   The hearing officer shall render a decision on the appeal within
five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails,
the city may have such work done. Within five days after receipt of such
notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request
a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove
the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation, except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions or are cast
off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.35 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is brought to the
governing body by the City nuisance officer, or the Board of Health or upon the
governing body’s own action. The governing body then may declare by resolution
a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation.
   (B)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced by:
city administrative procedures; penal prosecutions through the courts; and/or
by the civil procedures in the courts. Any of these procedures or any
combination of these procedures may be used to enforce the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.6)
§ 91.36 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   The city may proceed with abatement of the nuisance, sanitation and/or
health violation with or without court involvement after the following
procedure is followed.
   (A)   After a nuisance is declared, the City Clerk notifies the City
Attorney to serve notice upon the violator(s).
   (B)   The City Attorney shall prepare and serve notice which shall describe
the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and removal of the
nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide information as to
how the interested parties may request a hearing before the governing body
described in division (D) below.
   (C)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city or county of the city, and by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot
or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date of
service is determined by the later of certified mail receipt, personal service
or publication date.
   (D)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing a
hearing before the governing body of the city within five days after notice of
violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations, the period for
requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
   (E)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time period,
the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at the sole
discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
   (F)   If a hearing is requested, the City Clerk shall fix date of said
hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing and with the date and time shall be served upon
the agent, owner and of the nuisance property by certified and regular mail.
   (G)   (1)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner, occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied.
      (2)   This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the governing body.
The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the hearing, or said
presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing officer to conduct
the hearing (said hearing officer may be the City Attorney or the enforcement
officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and receive evidence
which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made, relevant evidence
of the nuisance since that time and evidence that the notices were properly
given. The objecting party shall then provide its evidence. The rules of
evidence are not required at said hearing, but all evidence must be relevant to
the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony shall be under oath as
administered by the hearing officer or any person so designated by the hearing
officer, and the person providing the testimony is subject to the laws of
perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by affidavit.
   (H)   (1)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand.
      (2)   If the resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may, by
resolution, extend the date by which the owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee
shall abate and remedy said public nuisance, but in no case shall his or her
time exceed 60 days.
      (3)   The findings of the governing board shall be made no later than 14
days after the hearing, and notice of its finding shall be served upon the
objecting party by regular U.S. mail within five days of the finding. The
finding of this hearing is final, provided that an interested party or parties
may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication.
   (I)   If the nuisance officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the city shall cause the abatement of
the nuisance.
   (J)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court the
findings and orders of the city, the city actions shall be stayed during until
such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In cases of
appeal from an action of the city condemning real property as a nuisance or as
dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the owners of the
adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before trial.
(Neb RS 19-710) (Prior Code, § 5-3.7)
§ 91.37 CIVIL COURT PROCEDURE.
   The governing board may instruct by resolution the City Attorney to file a
civil action for the abatement of a nuisance. Said civil suit may commence
after 15 days’ notice has been served in accordance with §§
91.36 and
91.99 and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.9)
§ 91.38 COSTS AND FEES.
   (A)   (1)   When the city has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either city employees or through contract
with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the actual cost
thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such property.
      (2)   The billing shall be calculated at the actual cost of abating the
nuisance plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office by regular
U.S. mail.
   (C)   (1)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is
done and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/
or occupant, the city may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefited by the actions in the same manner as other special assessments
are levied and assessed, and the city may collect said assessments in the same
procedure as other special assessments are collected.
      (2)   The city may also recover said expenses and costs of abating the
nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts
of the appropriate county in the state.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.12)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If the declared nuisance, health and/or sanitation is not abated
within 15 days that the notice is served upon the owner and/or occupant, and
the City Clerk has not received a request for hearing, the City Attorney or
nuisance officer may cause issue of a citation for code violation by the
hearing officer, or any person so designated by the hearing officer, and the
person providing the testimony is subject to the laws of perjury. Evidence may
be submitted in writing by affidavit.
   (B)   (1)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
City Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the city. A person or persons
found guilty of these violations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up
to $500 per each offense.
      (2)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance resolution
and notice, is not abated shall be separate offense and subject to a separate
fine.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.8)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   City fire protection
   
92.02   Notice of violation
   
92.03   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.04   Fire Code enforcement
Fireworks
   
92.15   Definitions and exceptions
   
92.16   Fireworks prohibition
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 CITY FIRE PROTECTION.
   Fire protection within the city is provided by way of Garden County Rural
Fire District #2 as established by joint resolution of the City of Oshkosh and
the Garden County Rural Fire District #2, adopted June 14, 2007. Garden County
Rural Fire District #2 provides all statutory obligations required fire
protection, firefighting and fire investigations within the city, and is
granted full authority and power of a Fire Department of a Class 2 city.
(Prior Code, § 5-2.1)
§ 92.02 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that this chapter has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of said premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, such order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to
the owner’s last known post office address if said owner is absent from the
jurisdiction. Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building.
   (B)   The owner, occupant or manager may, within five days after such order
by the Chief of the Fire Department or his or her agent, appeal the order with
the governing body requesting a review and it shall be the duty of the
governing body to hear the same within not less than five days nor more than
ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with the Municipal
Clerk. The governing body shall then affirm, modify or rescind said order as
safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final, subject
only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity.
   (C)   Said order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident
that reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to
the probable hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief.
A copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the
owner, occupant or manager making the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 5-2.2)
§ 92.03 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this chapter as though spread at large herein together
with all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   One copy of the Uniform Fire Code shall be on file with the City Clerk
and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 5-2.3)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt, see Neb. RS 18-132
   Powers and duties of State Fire Marshal, see Neb. RS 81-502
   Zoning and building regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-
933
§ 92.04 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-2.4)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
FIREWORKS
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS. Sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains,
torches, colored forecones, star and comet type color aerial shells without
explosive charges for the purpose of making a noise, color wheels, toy cap
pistols and toy caps each of which does not contain more than 35 hundredths of
one gram of explosive material, any other fireworks approved by regulation of
the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 28-1241)
   (B)   Exception. Upon application to the Mayor and City Council, a permit
may be issued from the Mayor and City Council to except public exhibitions of
fireworks and pyrotechnics from this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1241(7))
(Prior Code, § 5-2.5)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
   Prohibitions not applicable, see Neb. RS 28-1245
   Unlawful fireworks, see Neb RS 28-1244
§ 92.16 FIREWORKS PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give, sell or offer for sale
any fireworks or pyrotechnics in the city without an occupation tax; provided,
that permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and July
5 of each year.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except that permitted
fireworks may be ignited between June 24 and July 5 of each year.
   (C)   Upon application to the Mayor and City Council a permit may be issued
from the Mayor and City Council to except public exhibitions of fireworks and
pyrotechnics from this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1241(7)) (Prior Code, § 5-2.6) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
   Prohibitions not applicable, see Neb. RS 28-1245
   Unlawful fireworks, see Neb. RS 28-1244
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Duties of animal control officer
   
93.03   Care of animals generally
   
93.04   Dogs and cats running at large
   
93.05   Excessive animal noise
   
93.06   Limitation on number of dogs and cats
   
93.07   Dangerous animals; prohibited animals in residential areas
   
93.08   License and tag required for dogs, cats and domesticated pot-bellied
pigs
   
93.09   Animals and fowl banned from the municipality
   
93.10   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
93.11   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
93.12   Impoundment
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE CARE. Normal and prudent attention to the needs of an animal,
including that care which is normally necessary to maintain good health in a
specific species of animal.
   ADEQUATE CONTROL. Control necessary to restrain or govern an animal so that
the animal does not injure or pose a threat to itself, any person, any other
animal or property.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Wholesome foodstuffs suitable for the species provided at
suitable intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain
good health in an animal considering its age and condition.
   ADEQUATE HEALTH CARE. The provision to each healthy animal of all
immunizations and preventative care required to maintain good health and space
adequate to allow the animal rest and exercise sufficient to maintain good
health, and the provision to each sick, diseased or injured animal of necessary
veterinary care or humane death.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structurally sound, properly ventilated, sanitary and
weatherproof shelter for the species, condition and age of the animal which
provides access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from exposure to
inclement weather conditions.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A constant access to or access at suitable intervals to a
supply of clean, fresh, potable water provided in a sanitary manner suitable
for the species, condition and age of the animal in sufficient amounts to
maintain good health in the animal.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, other than a human,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal which is tame or domesticated or adapted
to live in intimate association with humans, such as a pet.
      (2)   FARM ANIMAL. An animal raised on a farm or ranch and used or
intended for use in farm or ranch production, or as food or fiber.
      (3)   FOWL. Any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female,
singular or plural.
      (4)   LARGE ANIMAL. Any swine, bovine, goat, sheep or beast of burden, or
any other domestic or wild animal of similar or larger size.
      (5)   SMALL ANIMAL. Any animal not within the definition of large animal
but including all dogs without reference to size.
      (6)   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which is predominantly free-roaming as
opposed to domesticated.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facilities operated by the city or its authorized agents
for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of
this chapter or state law.
   CAT. Any domestic feline animal (Felis domesticus), male or female, sexed or
neutered.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, animal
exhibit, rodeo, auction, riding school, stable, carriage horse service,
cattery, kennel, patrol, sentry or guard dog service, animal trainer or
business keeping animals in stock for retail or wholesale trade, or any
establishment performing one or more of the principal activities of such
establishments.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
   DOG. Any domestic canine animal (Canis familiaris), male or female, sexed or
neutered. Any cross or hybrid which is part dog and part wild animal shall be
considered a WILD ANIMAL for the purposes of this chapter.
   HARBOR. To feed or shelter an animal at the same location for three or more
consecutive days.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of any animal accomplished by a method
approved by the American Veterinary Medical Association’s Committee on
Euthanasia.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or treatment for
one or more broken bones.
   NEIGHBOR. An individual residing in a residence structure which is within
100 yards of the property on which the animal is kept or harbored and who does
in writing state that he or she will testify under oath to the animal making
excessive noise.
   OFFICER. Any duly appointed law enforcement officer, humane officer or
animal control officer of the city.
    OWNER. In addition to its ordinary meaning, also means any person who keeps
or harbors an animal or professes to be owning, keeping or harboring an animal.
   PESTS. Birds, rabbits or rodents which damage property or have an adverse
effect on the public health.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE. Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal to a
limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, run, cage, compartment, pool or
hutch.
   PRIVATE ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated or maintained by an incorporated
humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention of cruelty
to animals or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare, protection
and humane treatment of such animals.
   SANITARY. Clean and free from infectious or deleterious influences.
   VETERINARIAN. A person licensed by the state to engage in the practice of
veterinary medicine.
   VETERINARY MEDICAL CARE FACILITY. A facility which has the primary function
of providing medical care for animals and is operated by a currently licensed
veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.1) (Ord. 484, passed 4-10-2025)
§ 93.02 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer of the city to enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.2)
§ 93.03 CARE OF ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping,
harboring or otherwise in possession or control of any animal to fail to
provide any or all of the following to the animal:
      (1)   Adequate care;
      (2)   Adequate control;
      (3)   Adequate food;
      (4)   Adequate health care;
      (5)   Adequate shelter; or
      (6)   Adequate water.
   (B)   Responsibility of parents for animals owned by minors. Any parent,
guardian or other person having custody of a minor child is deemed legally and
criminally responsible for the adequate care of any animal owned by, in the
control of or harbored by that minor child.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.3) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
dog to permit, suffer or allow the dog to run at large within the city. For the
purpose of this section, any dog shall be deemed to have been permitted,
suffered or allowed by its owner, keeper or harborer to run at large when
outside of the property of the owner, keeper or harborer and not effectively
physically restrained on a chain or leash or behind a suitable fence or other
proper method of physical restraint from which it cannot escape.
   (B)   A legally blind person using a seeing eye dog or a deaf person using a
hearing dog in the customary manner shall be deemed to be in compliance with
this section.
   (C)   Official use of dogs by a governmental unit shall be deemed in
compliance with this section.
   (D)   If an officer finds a dog running at large in violation of this
section, the officer has the authority to pick up the animal and transport it
to the city-designated place of impoundment. The owner or person claiming such
animal shall pay an impoundment fee to the city in addition to any other fees
or fines provided for in the city code.
   (E)   The owner, keeper or person harboring any female dog or cat shall,
during the period that such animal is in heat or in state of estrus, keep it
securely confined within an area secure from access by male dogs and cats
running at large, except when out upon such person’s premises briefly for
toilet purposes while on a leash or otherwise effectively physically restrained
and under supervision.
   (F)   In the case of cats, it shall be unlawful for any person owning,
keeping or harboring any cat to permit, suffer or allow the cat to run at large
within the city so that the cat poses a nuisance to the neighbors or the public
welfare. A cat which poses a nuisance is one which interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life and property or tends to depreciate the value of
property of others. Any person found in violation of this section shall be
punished as provided for in §
93.99. If a cat is impounded at the animal shelter, the owner or person
claiming such animal shall pay an impoundment fee to the city in addition to
the other fees.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
dog or cat to allow the animal to injure or destroy any personal or real
property of any description belonging to another person. Any person found in
violation of this section shall be punished as provided for in §
93.99. The owner, keeper or person harboring any such dog or cat, in addition
to the person’s usual judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the
person so injured in an amount equal to the value of the damage sustained.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.4) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXCESSIVE ANIMAL NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any animal which,
by making excessive noise, disturbs a neighbor.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXCESSIVE NOISE. Includes any noise produced by an animal which is so
loud and continuous as to disturb the peace and quiet of a neighbor.
      NEIGHBOR. An individual residing in a residence structure which is within
100 yards of the property on which the animal is kept or harbored and who does
in writing state that he or she will testify under oath to the animal making
excessive noise. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to prohibit an
officer from filing a complaint for excessive noise based on his or her own
observations and personal knowledge.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished as provided for in §
93.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.5) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Maximum number exceptions. It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance
for any person in charge of a residence to keep or allow to be kept more than
four dogs or cats, or any combination of such animals exceeding four in number,
over the age of 90 days at such residence, unless the residence or the owner of
the dogs and cats kept there is within one or more of the following exceptions:
      (1)   The residence is licensed as a commercial animal establishment; or
      (2)   The owner of the dogs and cats over 90 days of age has applied for
and received a permit to keep dogs and cats in excess of four as provided for
under this section and, upon request of an officer, presents for inspection
such permit.
   (B)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Application for a permit for under this section shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk. Such application shall state:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner of the dogs or cats;
         (b)   The breed, color, age and sex of the dogs or cats;
         (c)   Whether such dogs or cats are licensed under this chapter;
         (d)   Whether such dogs or cats are neutered, spayed or intact;
         (e)   Such other information as may identify the dogs or cats; and
         (f)   Such other information as the Animal Control Commission may
require.
      (2)   The application shall certify to the information contained in such
application under penalty of law for the willful making of any untrue
statement. The application shall further state, by making and signing the
application, that the applicant consents to an inspection of premises shall
result in denial of application.
   (C)   Issuance of permit; revocation; expiration. Upon receipt of an
application for a permit provided for under this section, the City Clerk shall
notify the animal control officer or a duly authorized representative to
investigate the premises and the manner in which the dogs or cats are kept. A
permit shall be issued only if the locating and the keeping of the dogs and
cats is, in the opinion of the animal control officer, such as not to be a
health hazard or nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood. An attempt shall be
made as a part of the application investigation to contact the neighbors in
order to determine if they have any objection to the issuance of the permit. A
permit issued under the provisions of this section may be revoked by the
Council for the violation by the holder of such permit of any provision of this
section or any other applicable provision of this chapter. All permits issued
under the provisions of this section shall be valid for a period of two years
of their issuance.
   (D)   Violations. When animals in excess of the limit established in this
section are found at a residence, the owner of the animals shall have 72 hours
to comply with this section. Failure to comply within 72 hours shall constitute
a violation of this section and shall be punished as provided for in §
93.99. Any combination of dogs or cats in excess of four in number shall be
considered one violation of this section, but each day in violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Review of issuance or revocation of permit. The issuance or revocation
of a permit shall be reviewable by the City Council upon request of any
interested party. The request for the City Council to review the issuance or
revocation of a permit shall be in writing to the City Clerk, requesting that
it be included on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
City Council. In reviewing the Commission’s action, the City Council may
approve, disapprove or take no action at all, which in the latter case shall
mean that the Commission’s action shall stand. As part of this review process,
the Council shall have the power to grant or revoke a permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DANGEROUS ANIMALS; PROHIBITED ANIMALS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
         (a)   Has killed a human being;
         (b)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
         (c)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
         (d)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an animal control authority; the owner has received notice from an animal
control authority or an animal control officer of such determination; and the
dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure shall
have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides shall be securely embedded into the ground at
least one foot. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the
elements.
   (B)   Determination that dog is potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   If it is determined by the animal control officer, after
investigation, that a dog is potentially dangerous dog, the animal control
officer shall notify in writing the owner of the dog that it has been declared
a potentially dangerous dog. If the owner of the dog disagrees with the animal
control officer’s determination, the owner may appeal in writing to the Animal
Control Commission within ten days of receiving the notice. The hearing, if
requested, will be held before the Mayor and City Council. The owner of the dog
shall bear the burden of proof. Any facts that the petitioner wishes to be
considered shall be submitted under oath or affirmation, either in writing or
orally at the hearing. The Mayor and City Council shall make a final
determination as to whether the dog is potentially dangerous as herein defined.
Such final determination shall be considered a final order of the city. The
determination that a dog is potentially dangerous dog shall be made by the
concurrence of a majority of all members elected to the Council.
      (2)   During the procedure described in this section, a dog declared as
potentially dangerous may be impounded pursuant to this chapter at the owner’s
expense or, if the officer is assured by the owner’s signed agreement of proper
confinement and safeguards, and that the dog has a current rabies vaccination,
the dog may be released to its owner pending a final determination.
   (C)   Certificate of registration for potentially dangerous dog. The owner
of a dog which has been declared as a potentially dangerous dog shall
immediately apply for a certificate of registration from the animal control
officer. A certificate of registration shall be issued by the Clerk if the
owner presents sufficient evidence of a proper enclosure to confine a
potentially dangerous dog and the posting of the premises with clearly visible
warning sign that there is a dangerous dog on the property. In addition, the
owner shall conspicuously display a sign with a warning symbol that informs
children of the presence of a dangerous dog. A decision by the animal control
officer not to issue the certificate of registration may be reviewed as
provided for in this section.
   (D)   Restraint of potentially dangerous dog. It is unlawful for an owner of
a potentially dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside the proper
enclosure and shall only be walked or exercised off the property of the owner,
on a leash adequate to control the dog, by a person 19 years of age or older.
   (E)   Dangerous animal prohibited. The owning, allowing, keeping or
harboring of a dangerous dog or other dangerous animal within the corporate
limits of the city is hereby prohibited and unlawful.
   (F)   Determination that dog is a dangerous dog. If it is determined by the
animal control officer, after investigation, that a dog is a dangerous dog, as
defined in division (A) above, the animal control officer shall proceed as
provided in §
93.12.
   (G)   Certain animals prohibited in residential areas. Within any
residential area the keeping, harboring or selling of any poisonous or venomous
animal or any warm-blooded carnivorous or omnivorous animal, including, but not
limited to, non-human primates, raccoons, skunks, foxes leopards, panthers,
tigers and lions, but excluding fowl, dogs, house cats, ferrets and small
rodents of varieties commonly kept as household pets, such as rats, mice,
gerbils, guinea pigs and hamsters, is hereby prohibited. Nonpoisonous snakes
shall be kept in locked escape-proof cages except when being handled. No snake
shall be permitted by the owner, keeper or handler to escape from a cage or
while being handled.
   (H)   Certain breeds of dogs declared dangerous and ownership prohibited.
      (1)   The following breeds of dogs, or any mix of the following breeds of
dogs, or any dog displaying the majority of the physical traits of any one or
more of the following breeds of dogs, more so than any breed of dogs, or any
dog exhibiting those distinguishing characteristics which substantially conform
to the standards established by the American Kennel Club or United Kennel Club
for any of the following breeds: American Pit Bull Terrier, American
Staffordshire Terrier or Staffordshire Bull Terrier, are hereby declared to be
a dangerous dog, and ownership of any such dog is prohibited within the city.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (H), OWNER is defined as any
person who owns, possesses, keeps, exercises control over, maintains, harbors,
transports or sells a dog within the city.
      (3)   Exceptions: The owner of any dog of the breed declared dangerous by
this chapter which is currently licensed in the city as of the date of
publication of this chapter, shall be permitted to keep the dog in the city,
provided the owner of the dog maintains the dog at all times in compliance with
the following requirements:
         (a)   Maintain a current license issued by the city:
         (b)   Maintain and provide proof to City Clerk of at least $300,000 in
liability insurance covering any damage done by the dog. The policy shall
contain a provision requiring the insurance company to provide written notice
to the City Clerk not less than 15 days prior to any cancellation, termination
or expiration of the policy;
         (c)   Dog shall be housed in a proper enclosure, as defined in
division (A) above;
         (d)   Dog shall only be walked or exercised off the property of the
owner, on a leash adequate to control the dog by a person 19 years of age or
older; and
         (e)   The owner shall, at the owner’s own expense, have the dog spayed
or neutered and shall present to the City Clerk written proof from a licensed
veterinarian that this sterilization has been performed.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to own, harbor or license any offspring of any
dog which is within the city pursuant to the exceptions listed above.
   (G)   Violations, penalty, impoundment, destruction and appeal.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary, the animal control
officer is authorized to immediately impound any dog found in the city, as
provided in §
93.12 which does not fall within the exceptions listed and may house or dispose
of such dog in such a manner as the animal control officer may deem
appropriate.
      (2)   When the animal control officer has impounded any dog pursuant to
this chapter and the owner of such dog disputes the classification of such dog
as dangerous, the owner of the dog may file a written petition with the City
Clerk for a hearing concerning such classification no later than seven days
after impoundment. Such petition shall include the name and address, including
mailing address of the petitioner. The City Clerk will then issue a notice of
hearing date by mailing a copy to the petitioner’s address no later than ten
days prior to the date of the hearing. When no written request from the owner
for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within seven days of impoundment,
the dog shall be humanely destroyed.
      (3)   The hearing, if any, will be held before the Mayor and City
Council. The owner of the dog shall bear the burden of proof. Any facts that
the petitioner wishes to be considered shall be submitted under oath or
affirmation, either in writing or orally at the hearing. The Mayor and City
Council shall make a final determination as to whether the dog is dangerous, as
herein defined. Such final determination shall be considered a final order of
the city.
       (4)   If the dog is found to be dangerous, it shall be humanely
destroyed, unless the owner produces evidence deemed sufficient by the City
Clerk that the dog is to be permanently taken out of the city, and the owner
pays for the cost of impoundment. If the dog is found not to be dangerous, the
dog shall be released to the owner.
      (5)   The procedures in this division (G) shall not apply and the owner
is not entitled to such a hearing with respect to any dog that was impounded as
the immediate result of an attack or bite. In those instances, the dog shall be
impounded and thereafter shall be humanely destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.7) (Ord. 484, passed 4-10-2025) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 LICENSE AND TAG REQUIRED FOR DOGS, CATS AND DOMESTICATED POT-BELLIED
PIGS.
   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog, cat or domesticated pot-
bellied pig over the age of three months within the municipality shall comply
with the following.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog, cat or domesticated
pot-bellied pig over the age of three months within the municipality shall
within ten days after acquisition of the animal acquire a license for each such
dog, cat or domesticated pot-bellied pig annually by or before May 1 of each
year. Upon payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk shall issue the
owner of the animal a license certificate and a metallic tag for each animal so
licensed. The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all animals so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said
animal until April 30 following such licensing. All license fees and collection
shall be immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the
Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design that are different in
appearance each year.
   (B)   The owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog, cat or domesticated pot-bellied pig
owned and kept by the owner. A certificate that the dog or domesticated pot-
bellied pig has had a rabies shot, or that the cat has had its distemper, FIV
and rabies shots and are effective for the ensuing year of the license shall be
presented when the license is applied for. No license or tag shall be issued
until the certificate is shown.
   (C)   The licensing fee per year is $10 for neutered animals and $18 for
non-neutered animals. If the license is not obtained on or before May 15 of
each year or within 15 days after the animal is placed in the possession of the
owner, the fee shall then be $50. The license shall not be transferable, and no
refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other disposition of the
licensed animal.
   (D)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the person designated by
the licensing authority shall issue to the owner of a dog, cat or domesticated
pot-bellied pig a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog, cat or
domesticated pot-bellied pig so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly
attached to the collar or harness of all dog, cat or domesticated pot-bellied
pig so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said dog, cat or
domesticated pot-bellied pig until April 30 following such licensing.
      (2)   If approval is given by the City Council after application as
provided in §
93.06 for licensing of animals in excess of four per household, the licensing
fees shall be $20 per animal for five to eight animals; $45 per animal for nine
to 16 animals; and $75 per animal for 17 to 32 animals. Under no circumstances
shall one household harbor more than 32 animals.
   (E)   (1)   Dogs, cats or domesticated pot-bellied pigs must wear
identification tags or collars at all times when off the premises of the owner.
In the absence of a tag or collar, a dog or cat shall be regarded as a stray
whenever off its owner’s property.
      (2)   Microchips shall not be considered an identification tag or collar
as required by this section.
   (F)   In the event that a license tag is lost, and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the
provisions herein, the person designated by the licensing authority shall issue
a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax
has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the City
Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All license fees and
collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the
duty of the person designated by the licensing authority to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.8) (Ord. 484, passed 4-10-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 54-603
§ 93.09 ANIMALS AND FOWL BANNED FROM THE MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the
corporate limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the
corporate limits any poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or any other fowls.
   (C)   A permit to keep or maintain the animals and fowl prohibited in
division (A) above may be applied for by completing a form available at City
Hall. Granting or denying of such permit shall be at the sole discretion of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal, as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any other city or
village, or any other public official authorized by the city or any other city
or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules, regulations or
ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special investigator
appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb. RS 81-201
while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goat, domesticated
cervine animal, ratite bird or poultry.
      OWNER or CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 17-138
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 93.12 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to capture,
secure and remove in a humane manner to any animal shelter, veterinarian or
other reasonable care any animal violating any of the provisions of this
chapter. The animals so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall
be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
      (2)   Each impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the pound for
a period of not less than five days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of the impoundment of all animals,
including any significant marks or identification, shall be posted at the
office of the City Clerk within 24 hours after the impoundment as public
notification of such impoundment.
      (3)   Any animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of the animal shelter’s or veterinarian’s daily boarding
fee and a general impoundment fee as stated below. The day on which the animal
was impounded shall count as one day, and any part of any day during which the
animal is impounded shall also count as a full day.
   (B)   In the case of any cat that appears to be feral and is noncompliant
with the tag and collar requirements established in §
93.08, the officer, as defined herein, may arrange for such animals to be
relocated and given to third parties or humanly killed/destroyed as deemed
reasonably necessary by the officer.
   (C)   The impoundment fee shall be as follows:
      (1)   For the first time any animal(s) is impounded in a 12-month period:
$25;
      (2)   For the second time any animal(s) is impounded in a 12-month
period: $50; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent times any animal(s) is impounded in a
12-month period: $75.
   (D)   Unclaimed impounded animals that have a tag or collar shall be kept
for no more than five days, and will become the property of the city or of the
humane society, and shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely
killed/destroyed.
   (E)   Stray animals without a tag or collar that are roaming at large,
remaining on private property without the consent of the owner or tenant or
remaining on or frequenting public property are deemed to be the property of
the city. Such animals may be relocated and given to third parties or humanly
killed/destroyed as deemed reasonably necessary by the officer.
   (F)   If the stray animal cannot be captured by conventional means, every
law enforcement officer, humane officer or other person designated by the City
Council is authorized to use any means necessary to remove the animal.
   (G)   (1)   Before releasing the animal, before or after impoundment, the
owner of said animal shall pay for the cost of a rabies shot (if suggested by a
veterinarian), cost of impounding the animal (including the boarding fees and
impoundment fees) and cost of a license tag or collar (if required).
      (2)   The owner may also be required to pay any fines and court costs
imposed for violations of this chapter, but said fines and costs will not be a
requirement for release of the animal to the custody of the owner.
(Ord. 484, passed 4-10-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and not more
than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.13)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
93.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided for in
division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.3)
   (C)   Any person owning, keeping or harboring any dog found to be running at
large, as provided in §
93.04, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished in addition to the
impoundment fees.
(Prior Code, § 5-5.4)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Plumbers
   
110.01   Master plumber; license
   
110.02   Master plumber; supervision of work
   
110.03   Master plumber; bond
   
110.04   License
   
110.05   License; expiration
   
110.06   License; revocation
   
110.07   License; use of name by another
   
110.08   License; exceptions
Railroad Companies
   
110.20   Railroad companies; safe crossing
   
110.21   Railroad companies; automatic lights and signals
   
110.22   Railroad companies; drainage
   
110.23   Railroad companies; obstructing traffic
Solid Waste Collection
   
110.35   Solid waste collection; regulation
   
110.36   Municipal Sewer Department; rates; surcharges
Franchises
   
110.50   Franchises; natural gas
   
110.51   Franchises; satellite cable television
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverage licenses, see
Chapter 112
PLUMBERS
§ 110.01 MASTER PLUMBER; LICENSE.
   No individual shall engage in the business of plumbing in the city unless
licensed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.1)
§ 110.02 MASTER PLUMBER; SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   No individual, firm, partnership or corporation shall engage in the business
of installing, repairing or altering plumbing unless the plumbing work
performed in the course of such business has passed the city test and has
references of a licensed master plumber they have worked under.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.2)
§ 110.03 MASTER PLUMBER; BOND.
   A person who has been issued a master plumber’s license shall execute and
deposit with the City Clerk a bond in the penal amount of $5,000, such bond to
be conditioned that all plumbing work performed by the licensee or under his or
her supervision shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of the
Plumbing Code, and that he or she will pay all fines and penalties properly
imposed upon him or her for violation of the provisions of this section. A
master plumber’s license shall not be valid unless a bond is executed and
deposited as herein provided and a fee paid in the amount of $20.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.3)
§ 110.04 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to be licensed as a plumber in the city shall make
written application to the City Clerk. Examination fees for plumber and plumber
licenses shall be $50, and payment of the fee shall accompany the application.
Examination fees are not refundable.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall establish standards and procedures for the city
qualification, examination and licensing of plumbers and shall issue an
appropriate license to each person who meets the qualifications therefor and
successfully passes the examination given by the City Clerk.
   (C)   Any person who fails to pass an examination as given by the City Clerk
may apply for re-examination after the expiration of 30 days upon payment of
the regular examination fee.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.4)
§ 110.05 LICENSE; EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued by the City Clerk shall expire on April 30 of the year
in which issued but may be renewed upon payment of the fee or fees provided in
this section. Expired licenses may be renewed at any time upon payment of the
penalty of $20 for plumber.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.5)
§ 110.06 LICENSE; REVOCATION.
   The City Clerk may revoke any license if the same was obtained through
nondisclosure, misstatement or misrepresentation of a material fact, or if a
penalty has been imposed under §
10.99. Before a license may be revoked, the licensee shall have notice in
writing, enumerating the charges against him or her, and he or she shall be
entitled to a hearing before the Mayor and City Council, to be held not less
than five days from the licensee’s receipt of the notice. The licensee shall be
given an opportunity to present oral or written testimony and shall have the
right to cross-examination. All testimony shall be given under oath. The Mayor
and Council shall have power to administer oaths, issue subpoenas and compel
the attendance of witnesses. The decision of the Mayor and Council shall be
based on the evidence produced at the hearing and made a part of the record
thereof. A person whose license has been revoked shall not be permitted to
apply for a new license for a period of one year from the date of the
revocation.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.6)
§ 110.07 LICENSE; USE OF NAME BY ANOTHER.
   No person who has obtained a plumber’s license shall allow his or her name
to be used by another person, either for the purpose of obtaining permits or
for the purpose of doing business or work under the license. Every person
licensed shall notify the City Clerk of the address of his or her place of
business, if any, and the name under which such business is carried on and
shall give immediate notice to the City Clerk of any change in either.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.7)
§ 110.08 LICENSE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter relating to plumbers shall not apply to
any public utility company or companies serving the city and its inhabitants
under a franchise agreement with the city, or its agents and employees, and
shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction upon any franchises
heretofore granted by the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1910) (Prior Code, § 6-1.8)
RAILROAD COMPANIES
§ 110.20 RAILROAD COMPANIES; SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the city to keep in a suitable and safe condition the
crossings and right-of-way in the city. If any such crossing shall at any time
fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public travel, the
City Council may, by resolution, call upon said company to make whatever
repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition. Notice
of said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of said company. In the
event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and correct said
condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours thereafter
shall be deemed and is hereby made a separate and distinct offense against the
provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.9)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-143
§ 110.21 RAILROAD COMPANIES; AUTOMATIC LIGHTS AND SIGNALS.
   When so ordered by the City Council, approved automatic lights or signals
shall be installed at designated crossings. Said lights and bells shall be kept
in good working order at all hours of the day and night so that all persons
approaching said crossing shall be warned of the danger of approaching trains,
engines or cars on the tracks. Neglect or refusal to comply with said order
within the time prescribed on the notice shall constitute a misdemeanor for
each 24 hours of such neglect or refusal.
(Neb. RS 17-561) (Prior Code, § 6-1.10)
§ 110.22 RAILROAD COMPANIES; DRAINAGE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants, owning, maintaining or operating a railroad within or through the
corporate limits to construct and keep in repair ditches, drains and culverts
along and under its railroad tracks where the same may be necessary for the
escape of water and proper draining of the territory on either side of said
railroads.
   (B)   When any such drains, ditches or culverts may be necessary for the
escape of water and the proper drainage of the territory on either side of any
such railroad track, the City Council may, by resolution, call upon the proper
railroad company to construct or repair said drain, ditch or culvert and to
place the same in proper condition for the escape of water for the proper
drainage of the territory on either side of said railroads. A copy of every
such resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the railroad company
whose duty it is to construct or keep in repair any such drain, ditch or
culvert; and for a failure or refusal to comply with any such resolution with
14 days after service thereof, as aforesaid, such railroad company, its local
agent, section foreman or the employee in charge of maintenance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. Neglect or refusal to comply with said order after 14
days have expired shall constitute a separate offense for each 24-hour period
thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1719
§ 110.23 RAILROAD COMPANIES; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants operating a railroad through the city to obstruct traffic on any
public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at one
time than ten minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-552) (Prior Code, § 6-1.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
§ 110.35 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION; REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or participate in the
removal of garbage for a fee until and unless said person has contracted with,
or has received a license from, the City Council. Application for a license may
be made at the office of the City Clerk upon a blank form supplied by the city.
Said application shall require all information and documents which the City
Council deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a license. If the
City Council decides to grant the license, the City Clerk will issue to the
applicant said license which will entitle him or her to collect, remove and
transport any garbage for a fee in, over or upon any street or public way in
the city. Any license so issued shall be subject to revocation by the City
Council after proper notice and a hearing if requested by the licensee. Said
licensee shall be liable for all bonds, fees and other rules and regulations
set by resolution of the City Council. The City Council shall have the power to
review and amend any rate or business practice adopted by the licensee. In the
event that the City Council shall provide for the city removal of garbage or
rubbish, the license shall immediately become void upon proper notice to the
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2105 and 19-2106
§ 110.36 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; RATES; SURCHARGES.
   Each resident user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on
a flat rate monthly as designated resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.14)
FRANCHISES
§ 110.50 FRANCHISES; NATURAL GAS.
   The City Council has granted to the Black Hills Energy Inc. the authority to
construct, maintain and operate a gas transmission, and distribution system
within the city. Actual details of the agreement, and the present gas rates,
charges and fees are available at the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.15)
Statutory reference:
   Gas franchises, see Neb. RS 17-528.02
§ 110.51 FRANCHISES; SATELLITE CABLE TELEVISION.
   The city has granted to the Wind Break Cable TV, its successors and assigns,
the non-exclusive rights privileges and authority to operate a cable television
system in the city. Actual details of the agreement and the charges, rates and
fees are on file and available for public inspection at any reasonable time at
the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 6-1.16)
Statutory reference:
   Utilities, contracts for service, see Neb. RS 17-902
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
111.01   Taxes imposed
   
111.02   Exemptions
   
111.03   Due date
   
111.04   Parties liable
   
111.05   Payment
§ 111.01 TAXES IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an occupation tax for each and every vendor,
occupation and business carried on within the city which does not have a
permanent business residence within the city limits. The amount of the tax is
in the amount as set by resolution of the governing body.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not extend to nor affect
individuals selling their own labor, handiwork, farm products, food livestock,
meat, poultry, butter, eggs, vegetables, hay or grain if raised or produced by
the vendors; provided, that the sale or offering for sale in the city of the
products or commodities above excepted shall be prima facie evidence that such
products or commodities were not raised or produced by such vendors until such
vendors shall satisfy the City Clerk or law enforcement officer by sufficient
proof that they are entitled to exemption under this division (B); and provided
further, that the City Clerk or law enforcement officer may, in the case of
vendors claiming exemption under this division (B), require such vendors to
make affidavit under oath with respect to the matter concerning the raising or
production of the specific products or commodities sold or offered for sale by
such vendors.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall not extend to scientific or
literary lectures or entertainments, or concerts and other entertainments given
exclusively by citizens of the city or their employees.
   (D)   The occupation tax year shall commence on May 1 of each year and end
on April 30 next succeeding. No occupation tax in an amount less than the
amount provided in this division (D) for a yearly period shall be accepted
regardless of the time within the taxing period when such business is
commenced. The amount of such occupation tax shall be deposited with the City
Clerk at the time the application for license is made or within 24 hours after
the application has been filed with the State Liquor Control Commission. The
City Clerk shall hold such occupation tax as a trust fund until the application
is finally passed upon, and if the application is refused and license denied,
then the amount thereof shall be returned to the applicant. The City Clerk
shall account for and pay the occupation tax to the City Treasurer immediately
after the license is issued, and the Treasurer shall credit the same to the
General Fund of the city. Upon the failure of any such applicant to pay the
occupation tax as herein provided, it shall be mandatory upon the City Council
to pass a resolution denying the application for a license or requesting the
Commission to deny the application, and the resolution shall state the reason
therefor and shall be forwarded to the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 6-3.1)
§ 111.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not extend to any business or
occupation which is interstate, or which is done or conducted by any department
of the government of the United States of America, the state or the city, or of
any county or other political subdivision of the state, or any of the officers
of such, in the course of its or their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 6-3.2)
§ 111.03 DUE DATE.
   On all occupations and businesses on which an occupation tax is levied at a
yearly rate, the year for such tax shall be deemed to begin with May 1 of each
year and end April 30 of the year following; and the occupation tax for that
year shall be due and payable in advance on May 1 every year and thereafter
shall be delinquent. On all occupations and businesses on which an occupation
tax is levied at a daily, monthly or quarterly rate, the tax shall be due and
payable in advance before the business begins for the number of days, months or
quarters as the case may be for which the occupation or business is to be
carried on within the taxing year.
(Prior Code, § 6-3.3)
§ 111.04 PARTIES LIABLE.
   It is the duty of each and every person to pay the occupation tax levied
against him or her at the time such tax becomes due.
(Prior Code, § 6-3.4)
§ 111.05 PAYMENT.
   (A)   The occupation tax herein levied shall be paid in cash to the City
Clerk or other person designated by the Mayor and City Council, who, upon the
payment thereof by any person, shall issue a receipt thereof to the person
paying the same, properly dated and specifying on behalf of whom and for what
the sum was paid. The City Clerk shall keep a proper account of occupation
taxes paid to him or her and the same shall be credited to the General Fund of
the city. The City Clerk’s receipt shall be the warrant and proper authority
for any person to carry on and conduct the business specified in the receipt so
issued and for which the occupation tax has been paid; provided, that such
receipt shall not be assignable.
   (B)   Every occupation tax levied at a daily, monthly, quarterly, yearly or
other rate must be paid in one payment in advance before the business is
commenced, whether the receipt is issued at the beginning of the day, month,
quarter, year or other term, or at any time thereafter; and no such receipt
shall be issued at the beginning of the day, month, quarter, year or other
term, or any certain time less than the day, month, quarter, year or other
term. No person paying an occupation tax shall be entitled to a refund of any
part of the tax so paid.
(Prior Code, § 6-3.5)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Adoption of state statutes
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
112.04   Responsible bar server training
   
112.05   Citizen complaints
   
112.06   Hours of sale
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   Except for the penalty provisions, the city hereby adopts Neb. RS Chapter
53, Article 1, the State Liquor Control Act, together with all subsequent
amendments thereto, as adopted by the state. Ordinance reference to any
specific statute is made as follows: “Ordinance No. 6-2.1-53-167.02” refers to
keg sales. One copy of all the relevant statutes for this chapter shall be on
file with the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 6-2.1)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
§ 112.03 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., the
business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery of such application from the State Liquor Control
Commission, notice and a copy of an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft brewery license or a microdistillery
license, the City Council may make and submit to the Commission recommendations
relative to the granting or refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   (a)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter
at any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq., to determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or
regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being
violated, and at that time, examine the premises of the licensee in connection
with such determination.
         (b)   Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
            1.   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
            2.   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
            3.   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
112.05, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or any valid and
subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit, from the applicant and any other person bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city one
time not less than seven, and not more than 14, days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing, the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of the notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and 53-129;
and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of the notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of the notice of renewal, if applicable,
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm or
corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., and doing business within the corporate limits of the city in any sum
which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under
the Act to obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 112.04 RESPONSIBLE BAR SERVER TRAINING.
   (A)   All Class C liquor licenses and owners, managers, employees must have
the responsible bar server training (RBST).
   (B)   Training is available online at www.lcc.ne.gov.
   (C)   The owner/manager of the establishment for the Class C liquor license
will be responsible for the setting up and creating an account for each
employee.
   (D)   Certificate of condition of class will be due to the City Council
within 45 days of completion.
   (E)   Completion of training is a condition of liquor license approval or
renewal.
(Prior Code, § 6-2.2)
§ 112.05 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the rules
or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for the purpose of
appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
§ 112.06 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except that
the City Council, with respect to an area inside the corporate limits of the
city, may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the City Council,
no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. Sunday
and 1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12:00 p.m., noon,
on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of a
Class C license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in the
possession or control of any person for the purpose of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a licensed premises from being
open for other business on the days and hours during which the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
130.01   Soliciting alms
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Street games
   
130.04   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.05   Obstructing water flow
   
130.06   Curfew; duty of parent or guardian; defenses
   
130.07   Loitering and vagrants
   
130.08   Prize fights
§ 130.01 SOLICITING ALMS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to solicit upon the public
streets or in any private residences alms, gifts or contributions for private
benefit unless the person so soliciting shall have first secured a permit from
the Municipal Clerk authorizing him or her to conduct such operations within
the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-4.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate public safety, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness or fighting in the streets or other public places or otherwise
violating the public peace by indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or
lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.03 STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the City
Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 130.04 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 130.05 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 130.06 CURFEW; DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN; DEFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon any of the streets, roads,
alleys or parks of the municipality, or other places of public amusement or
recreation therein after the hour of 11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m.
of the following day on Sunday through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:30
a.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or any adult person
having the legal care, custody or control of any minor under the age of 18
years to allow or permit such minor to loiter, wander, stroll, idle or play in
or about any of the places designated in division (A) above after the hour of
11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. of the following day on Sunday
through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:30 a.m. and until the hour of 5:00
a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) above that
the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the
legal care, custody or control of such minor;
      (2)    On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent, guardian or
other adult person having the legal care, custody or control of such minor and
was using a direct route;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, including, but not limited to,
newspaper delivery, and was using a direct route;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the law
enforcement officer about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school or religious activity or returning
home by a direct route from an official school or religious activity;
       (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-4.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   General ordinance making authority, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 130.07 LOITERING AND VAGRANTS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon the
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
      (2)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted by requesting the person to identify himself or herself
and to explain his or her presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of
an offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm.
      (3)   Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by
a police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area or mall, or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to block, obstruct or prevent
free access to the entrance to any building open to the public.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passers-by in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop
motor vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other
bodily gestures.
      (2)   The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a specific
intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division (C)
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. An area generally visible to public view, including
streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots,
automobiles (whether moving or not) and buildings open to the general public,
including those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the
doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing
them.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate public safety nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.08 PRIZE FIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the municipality to sponsor or
engage in any fight by agreement either as principal or second; provided, that
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit boxing exhibitions duly licensed
by the state.
(Prior Code, § 4-4.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of State Athletic Commissioner, see Neb. RS 81-8,129
   Penalty for violations of statutes, see Neb. RS 81-8,142
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Tobacco
   
131.01   Possession of tobacco by minors
   
131.02   Smoking in prohibited areas
Sexual Predator
   
131.15   Sexual predator residency restrictions
Weapons Offenses
   
131.30   Discharge of firearms
   
131.31   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
131.99   Penalty
TOBACCO
§ 131.01 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
possess or smoke cigarettes or cigars, to use or possess vapor products or
alternative nicotine products, or to use and possess any tobacco products in
any form whatever.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing
nicotine that is intended for human consumption whether chewed, absorbed,
dissolved or ingested by any other means.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but
not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or
dipping tobacco.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing nicotine that
employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit or other
electronic, chemical or mechanical means, regardless of shape or size that can
be used to produce vapor from nicotine in a solution or other form. This
includes any electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe or similar product or device and any vapor cartridge or other
container of nicotine in a solution or other form that is intended to be used
with or in an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe or similar product or device.
(Prior Code, § 4-5.1) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 SMOKING IN PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No person shall smoke in a public place or at a public meeting except in
designated smoking areas; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply in
cases in which an entire room or hall is used for a private social function and
seating arrangements are under the control of the sponsor of the function and
not of the proprietor or person in charge of such room or hall.
(Prior Code, § 4-5.2) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Clean Indoor Air Act, see Neb. RS 57-5716 et seq.
SEXUAL PREDATOR
§ 131.15 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval prescribed in Neb. RS
Chapter 79.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq., who has committed an
aggravated offense, as defined in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a
person 18 years of age or younger.
   (B)   Sexual predator residency restrictions; penalties; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property
line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of the school or child
care facility.
      (3)   Exceptions. This ordinance shall not apply to a sexual predator
who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state of a political subdivision; or
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 4-5.3) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 29-4005 and 29-4017
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 131.30 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.31 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Persons convicted of violating the provisions of §
131.01 shall be guilty of a Class V misdemeanor. Any person charged with a
violation of this section may be free from prosecution if he or she furnishes
evidence for the conviction of the person or persons selling or giving him or
her the alternative nicotine product, tobacco product or vapor product.
(Prior Code, § 4-5.1)
   (C)   A person who violates §
131.15 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 4-5.3)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
      
151.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Applicability and administration
   
150.03   Vacant property registration procedure and fees
   
150.04   Exemptions
   
150.05   Inspection
   
150.06   Collection of fees
   
150.07   Additional provisions
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery and other
plantings;
      (2)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash or other
waste;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business; and
      (5)   Further EVIDENCE OF VACANCY includes, but is not limited to, using
commercial or residential building for storage purposes or buildings without
active water, sewer and electricity.
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record on
the records of the County Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, condominium, townhouse, apartment unit or
building or a trailer house.
   VACANT. A residential building or commercial building that exhibits evidence
of vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.13)
§ 150.02 APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to any type of either residential or
commercial building or both, located within the corporate limits of the city,
except any property owned by the federal government, the state or any political
subdivision thereof or any property specifically referenced in §
150.04.
   (B)   The city shall maintain a data base of vacant property within the
corporate limits of the city. Said data base shall be maintained by the City
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.13)
§ 150.03 VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   (A)   Owners of vacant property, as defined in this chapter, shall be
required to register such property with the City Administrator if the property
has been vacant for 180 days or longer. Registration shall require the
completion of a vacant property registration form in either paper or electronic
form, including the following information:
      (1)   Name, street address, mailing address, telephone number and, if
applicable, the facsimile number and email of the property owner or his or her
agent;
      (2)   Street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   Transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner;
      (4)   Date on which the property became vacant; and
      (5)   Owner plan of occupancy.
   (B)   Owners of vacant property shall be required to pay an initial
registration fee 180 days after initial registration of the vacant property or
360 days after the property becomes vacant, whichever is sooner. The initial
registration fee for residential properties shall be $250. The initial
registration fee for commercial properties shall be $1,000.
   (C)   Owners of vacant property shall be required to pay an additional
supplemental fee each year for as long as the property remains on the vacant
property registration data base. The supplemental fee shall be $500 every six
months. The maximum supplemental fee charged shall not exceed ten times the
times the initial registration fee amount. Registration fees may be refundable
for the year preceding the date on which the property is no longer vacant.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.13)
§ 150.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exemptions from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Vacant property that is advertised in good faith for sale for not more
than 125% of its assessed value unless owner can show comparable sales in
excess of that amount, or for lease, advertised in at least two places using
signage, social media or newspaper;
   (B)   Vacant property that is used as a seasonal residence;
   (C)   Vacant property that is damaged by fire, weather, an act of God or
vandalism for a period not to exceed six months;
   (D)   Vacant property that is under construction or renovation for a period
not to exceed six months;
   (E)   Vacant property that is where the owner is temporarily absent, but who
has demonstrated his or her intent to return for a period not to exceed six
months; and
   (F)   Vacant property that is the subject of divorce, probate or estate
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.13)
§ 150.05 INSPECTION.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall inspect the interior and
exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one-year intervals
thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration data base.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.13)
§ 150.06 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (A)   The city may enforce the collection of vacant property registration
fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid fines for any
violation of this chapter shall become a lien on the applicable property upon
the recording of a notice of such lien in the office of the County Recorder of
Deeds. The lien created under this division (B) shall be subordinate to all
liens on the applicable property recorded prior to the time the notice of such
lien under this division (B) is recorded.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.13)
§ 150.07 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If vacant property changes ownership the subsequent owner or owners of
the vacant property shall assume the obligations of the previous owner or
owners.
   (B)   Notice of any determination shall be sent by certified mail or
personal service to the registered owner at the address maintained by Register
of Deeds. If the owner or owners of any property subject to this chapter object
to any determination made by the city or the City Administrator pursuant to
this chapter, they may appeal said determination to the City Council by filing
with the City Clerk, in writing, their reasons for objection within ten days of
receiving notice of such determination. The City Council shall set a hearing
date within 30 days of filing of said objection.
   (C)   If at any time vacant property that has been registered with the data
base ceases to be classified as vacant or subsequently meets one of the
exemptions, the owner or owners shall notify the City Administrator who shall
upon proof of such change in circumstances remove said property from the data
base.
(Prior Code, § 5-3.13)
CHAPTER 151: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
151.01   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
151.02   Maintenance and control
   
151.03   Improvement districts; land adjacent
   
151.04   Protection from damage
   
151.05   Poles, wires and pipelines
   
151.06   Prohibited obstructions
   
151.07   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
151.20   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
151.21   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
Sidewalks
   
151.35   Maintenance
   
151.36   Duty of property owner to keep free from obstructions
   
151.37   New sidewalks; Council order
   
151.38   Reconstructing sidewalks; notice
   
151.39   Failure to construct, reconstruct, repair or widen
   
151.40   Materials
   
151.41   Width, location
   
151.42   Assessment sheets
   
151.43   Tax notice for improvements, procedure
   
151.44   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
151.45   Construction and repair at city direction
Streets and Alleys
   
151.60   Construction notice
   
151.61   Improvement districts; objections
   
151.62   Petition for improvements
   
151.63   Deferral from special assessments
   
151.64   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
151.65   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
151.66   Names and numbers
   
151.67   Driveway approaches
   
151.68   Snow, debris and the like on street prohibited
CITY PROPERTY
§ 151.01 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established
grade, change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-
lay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds
or public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city
corporate area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space.
      (2)   These projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of
special assessments on the property especially benefitted in proportion to such
benefits, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (B)   The City Council may by ordinance create improvement districts, to be
consecutively numbered, which may include two or more connecting or
intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include two or more types
of the improvements authorized under this section in a single district in one
proceeding.
   (C)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided
in Neb. RS 17-510 through 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-
509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
through 17-524,
    18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 through 19-2415
§ 151.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 151.03 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a municipality may include
land adjacent to such municipality when creating an improvement district, such
as a sewer, paving, water, water extension or sanitary sewer extension
district. The City Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of special
benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially
benefitted thereby.
(Neb. RS 19-2427) (Prior Code, § 5-4.3)
§ 151.04 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No person shall remove, destroy or tear down any signal, barricade, fence,
railing or other device erected or constructed for the purpose of protecting
paving, or any other work while in course of construction or after it has been
constructed on any of the streets, alleys or public grounds. No person shall
drive over or upon or go upon any paving or other public works in any of the
streets, alleys or public grounds while the same is protected by any signal,
barrier, fence or railing, or until the same has been removed by the
contractors or by the duly authorized officials of the city. It is declared to
be unlawful for any person to mar, deface, destroy, remove or carry away any
street sign or highway marker erected either by authority of the municipality
or by the state, within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 POLES, WIRES AND PIPELINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipelines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   (1)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council, and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected.
      (2)   The companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at
their own expense cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines or
other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The Council shall designate
another location as closely as possible where the appurtenances may be reset or
placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 151.06 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber by fences,
gates, buildings, structures or otherwise any of the streets, alleys or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement,
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe, shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction that is described in this section is determined
to exist, the city may proceed against the owner or the occupant of the
property adjacent to the sidewalk space as provided in Chapter 91.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the duty
of the municipal official in charge of streets to inspect the proposed place of
entry into the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the municipal official in charge of
streets, who shall supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done
in closing the opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the municipal
official in charge of streets, under the supervision and inspection of the City
Engineer or the committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the
cutting and closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs
thereof to the party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the
cutting and closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the
permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per-square-foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event
the work is done by the city. If the Council elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the city
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the municipal official in
charge of streets or of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making deposit, the applicant shall, before any permit
is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety, to be
approved by the Council, in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 151.20 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building or community house for
housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other public
buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be constructed
by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including the construction of buildings
to be leased in whole or in part by the city to any other political or
governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease such
buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the city at a general city election or at an election duly called for that
purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a majority of
the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless, within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance petition against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a petition
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city election or a
special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction
is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year
following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be issued
until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the electors
voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general city election or at a
special election called for the submission of such proposition. The question of
such purchase or erection of such a building or buildings, as set forth in
division (A) above, and the question of the issuance of the negotiable bonds
referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as one question at a general
city or special election if so ordered by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council. The number of voters voting at the
last regular city election prior to the presenting of the petition shall be
deemed the number of votes in the city for the purpose of determining the
sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city, when
defeated, shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 151.21 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the city shall not engage in the construction of any public works
involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications and
estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, or professional engineer, or those who are under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the city that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above, or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells, as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply.
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the city is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the city’s architectural or engineering
work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
SIDEWALKS
§ 151.35 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to the
lot, lots or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair, and
in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her or their lot, lots or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the City Council shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.9)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct and repair, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 151.36 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER TO KEEP FREE FROM OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Every occupant of any lot(s) or parcel(s) or owner of any vacant lot(s) or
parcel(s) within the corporate limits shall have the duty for the sidewalk
adjoining the lot(s) or parcel(s) to provide an area free from obstructions, a
minimum of a 48-inch width or the width of the sidewalk, whichever is less.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.11)
§ 151.37 NEW SIDEWALKS; COUNCIL ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever three-fourths of the City Council shall deem it necessary
that a sidewalk be constructed in front of any lot or other parcel of land in
the city, including crosswalks over railroad rights-of-way, in a place where
there is no sidewalk, it shall so order by resolution. The notice of the
Council’s intention to construct such sidewalk shall be given by the City Clerk
by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper published in and of
general circulation in the city. The notice shall notify such owner of the
passage of the resolution, that the owner will have 30 days from and after the
day of publication within which to construct the sidewalk so ordered by
resolution or cause the same to be done, and that if the owner fails to
construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within 30 days after the
day of the publication of the notice, then the city will cause the sidewalk to
be constructed and the cost thereof will be levied and assessed thereafter by
the Mayor and Council as a special tax against the premises; provided, that the
notice shall contain the engineer’s estimate of the cost of the work, and no
special assessment in excess of the amount of the estimate shall be assessed
against the property. A copy of the notice so published shall also be either
served by the City Administrator upon the occupant in possession of the
property involved or posted by the City Administrator upon such premises ten
days prior to the commencement of construction. The notice shall be in
substantially the following form.
 
   Resolution
 
Oshkosh, Nebraska               , 20        
 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF OSHKOSH, NEBRASKA:
 
1.   That within 30 days after the publication of this Resolution, a sidewalk be (constructed, reconstructed, repaired,
widened) and laid to the established grade on the                       side of                                 Street in the
City of Oshkosh, adjoining the following described premises, to-wit: (Legal description and, where applicable, address); under
the supervision of the City Administrator and in accordance with §
151.35 of the Oshkosh Municipal Code.
2.   That in the event of the failure of the owner to have such sidewalk (constructed, reconstructed, repaired, widened), the
Mayor and Council will cause the same to be (constructed, reconstructed, repaired, widened) and the entire cost thereof will
be taxed as a special assessment against the above described premises as provided by law.
3.   The engineer’s estimate for the work is $                            .
 
SEAL
                                      
   Mayor
 
Attest:
 
                                           
 
City Clerk
   Return
 
I hereby certify that I served a copy of the foregoing Resolution on                     by (personally delivering to
                    , the occupant in possession of the property; posting on the property) a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Resolution on                 20             , said day being at least ten days prior to the date of commencement of
(construction, re-construction, repair, widening) of said sidewalk.
                                
   City Administrator
 
   (B)   The publisher of such legal newspaper shall file with the City Clerk
an affidavit of the publication of the resolution as soon as the publication
herein required is completed. Such publication, together with the return of the
City Administrator, shall be deemed to be good and sufficient notice to the
owner of the property in front of, abutting or adjacent to which the sidewalk
is to be constructed, reconstructed, repaired or widened.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.12)
§ 151.38 RECONSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS; NOTICE.
   Whenever the Mayor and City Council shall deem it necessary that an old
sidewalk be reconstructed or widened, the City Clerk and City Administrator
shall follow the procedure set forth in this section for the construction of
new sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.14)
§ 151.39 FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT, REPAIR OR WIDEN.
   If any owner shall neglect or refuse, after notice has been given as
provided in this section, to construct, reconstruct, repair or widen any
sidewalk within the time limit in the notice given, the City Administrator
shall proceed at once and without further notice to such owner to have such
sidewalk constructed, reconstructed, repaired or widened, as the case may be;
and the expense of such work shall be assessed to such lot or other parcel of
land and collected as provided by law, if three-fourths of the City Council by
vote shall have assented to the making of the sidewalk improvement.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.15)
§ 151.40 MATERIALS.
   All sidewalks in the city which shall be constructed, reconstructed,
repaired or widened after June 21, 1967, shall be of concrete of at least the
proportions of six-bag concrete and not less than three and five-eighths inches
thick, poured upon a gravel fill of at least one inch, which concrete shall be
float finished and cut in four-foot blocks.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.16)
§ 151.41 WIDTH, LOCATION.
   (A)   All sidewalks in front of or along any lot or other parcel of land in
the residential or agricultural districts of the city shall be constructed of a
minimum 48 inches in width. All sidewalks in front of or along any lot or other
parcel of land in the commercial or industrial districts of the city shall be
constructed of a minimum eight feet in width, unless by special permit the
Mayor and City Council shall allow a sidewalk of a different width.
   (B)   The inner edges of all sidewalks shall be such distance from the lot
line as set forth in the permit and shall conform to such grade as set forth in
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.17)
§ 151.42 ASSESSMENT SHEETS.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall certify to the Mayor and City Council a
detailed schedule of all sidewalks constructed, reconstructed, repaired or
widened and the cost of same by which the Mayor and Council may be aided in
determining the amount to be assessed as a special assessment against each lot
or other parcel of land; and the City Engineer shall certify such other facts
as may be necessary to enable the Mayor and Council to make the proper special
assessment. The City Engineer shall also certify to the Mayor and Council the
acceptance of any sidewalk so improved and what other action he or she has
taken with reference to such sidewalks. The City Engineer shall allocate the
cost of sidewalk improvements to the adjoining lots or other parcels of land
and prepare all necessary data for assessment sheets.
   (B)   If there is no City Engineer, the City Administrator shall perform all
the duties required of the City Engineer with relation to any sidewalk
improvement contemplated by this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.18)
§ 151.43 TAX NOTICE FOR IMPROVEMENTS, PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The cost of constructing, reconstructing, repairing or widening any
sidewalk shall be levied, by resolution, upon the lot or other parcel of land
fronting and adjoining which such sidewalks are constructed, reconstructed,
repaired or widened, which resolution shall specify the street upon which such
sidewalk has been so constructed, reconstructed, repaired or widened, and the
length and width of each sidewalk constructed, reconstructed, repaired or
widened fronting on any lot or other parcel of land. Such assessment shall be
made by the Mayor and City Council at a meeting by resolution, fixing the
valuation of the lots assessed, taking into account the benefits derived or
injuries sustained in consequence of such improvement, and the amount charged
against the same, which, with the vote thereon, by “yeas” and “nays,” shall be
spread upon the minutes.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of holding such meeting and the purpose
for which it is to be held shall be published in a legal newspaper published in
or of general circulation in the city, at least four weeks before the same
shall be held, or in lieu thereof, personal service may be made upon the person
owning the property to be assessed. All such assessments shall be known as
“special assessments for improvement,” and shall be levied and collected as a
separate tax in addition to the tax for general purposes, to be placed and
collected in like manner as other city taxes.
   (C)   Whenever any such special tax is levied, the City Clerk shall
forthwith deliver a certified copy of such resolution to the County Treasurer,
who shall place the same on the tax list to be collected in the manner provided
by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.19)
§ 151.44 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The municipal official in charge of streets shall issue the
desired permit unless good cause appears why the permit should be denied,
except that if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the
regularly prescribed location, grade or elevation, the municipal official in
charge of streets shall submit the application to the City Council for
determination as to whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be
unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed, such sidewalk
at any other location, grade or elevation than so designated by the city. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade or elevation,
and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated
by the municipal official in charge of streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.45 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor and
City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner.
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city at
least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 151.60 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall notify the owners in fee simple of real
estate abutting a street, alley or a part thereof which is to be put under
contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas,
electric service and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all
consumers of gas, water and sewer services which will be discontinued during
such construction. The notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper
at least 20 days prior to the beginning of such construction by the party
undertaking such construction, and the notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed.
   (B)   All gas, water, sewer and underground connections must be made prior
to the paving or repaving of the street under construction. After expiration of
such time, permits for excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be
allowed, until after the completion of the pavement in the street or alley, and
the formal final acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.21)
Statutory reference:
   Notice required, see Neb. RS 17-522
§ 151.61 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   The City Council may proceed as it deems necessary to make improvements
allowed by statute and fund same by a special assessment levy pursuant to the
state statutes.
(Neb. RS 17-511) (Prior Code, § 5-4.24)
§ 151.62 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Owners of property in the city may petition the City Council for the
creation of an improvement district within the city pursuant to the state
statutes. The City Council may approve or deny such request according to the
statutes.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (Prior Code, § 5-4.25)
§ 151.63 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any landowner within a created improvement district upon which a special
assessment has been levied may apply to the City Council for deferral from the
assessment pursuant to the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.26)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431(2)
§ 151.64 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The city may, without petition or creating a street improvement
district, grade, curb, gutter and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance of not to exceed one block on either side of that paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from that
major traffic street.
   (B)   Those improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or
alley or any unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed
the minimum standards for pavement set by the city for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
Mayor and City Council may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or
issue paving bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 through 18-2004)
§ 151.65 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or the public at large, even though those losses or
damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than
the rest of the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public
way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first-class mail to their last known address or, if there is no known
address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or if a
special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time and place
of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of this form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule.
 
An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way. If
no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
 
§ 151.66 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City
Council may require.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the municipal official in charge of streets,
upon the erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the
building and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.67 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The municipal official in charge of streets may require the owner of
property served by a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the
street right-of-way to repair or replace any such driveway approach which is
cracked, broken or otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or
is likely to cause damage to or interfere with any street structure, including
pavement or sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the municipal
official in charge of streets may cause the work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.68 SNOW, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push or deposit snow, sleet, ice or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
CHAPTER 152: TREES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Interference with enforcement agents
   
152.03   Street species to be planted
   
152.04   Distances and clearances for planting
   
152.05   Public tree care
   
152.06   Permits required
   
152.07   Pruning; corner clearance
   
152.08   Tree topping and stump removal
   
152.09   Dangerous trees and shrubs
   
152.10   Dead or diseased tree removal
   
152.11   Review by City Council
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY TREE MANAGER. The official (public employee) representative of the Tree
Board and as such is responsible for administration of the community forestry
program.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on or in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
   PUBLIC COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees, and other trees owned by
the city as a total resource.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, other woody vegetation on land lying
between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, alleys or other
ways within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.31)
§ 152.02 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Advisory Board, or any agents or contractor with the city, while
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any within
the public community forest.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 STREET SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The city shall maintain an extensive list of recommended trees for
planting in public areas. The purpose of this listing will be to maintain
diversity in the total tree population. This list shall be available to
residents of the city upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private
and public properties.
   (B)   The list of recommended trees shall be updated periodically to reflect
new developments or species that will affect the population of the community
forest.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.33)
§ 152.04 DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than
eight feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than four feet from a sidewalk, driveway or
street.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 25 feet from any street
corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curb or curb
lines.
   (C)   Special permission must be obtained from the City Tree Manager when
planting street trees within ten feet of any point on a line on the ground
immediately below any overhead utility wire.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.34)
§ 152.05 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
 
   (B)   The City Tree Advisory Board shall make recommendations to the City
Council for the removal or cause or order to be removed, any part thereof which
is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to
sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners, providing that the selection and location of the trees is in
accordance with §§
152.03 and
152.04.
   (C)   The City Tree Advisory Board will direct the City Administrator to
notify in writing the owners of such trees which violate any provision of this
chapter.
   (D)   Removal or trimming shall be done by the owners at their own expense
within 60 days after the date of service of the notice. If the owners fail to
comply with such provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove such
trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s property tax notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.35)
§ 152.06 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall plant a tree on public property without first obtaining a
permit from the City Administrator. There will be no fee for such permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street, alley or other right-
of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the light from any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the
surface of the street or sidewalk. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased
or dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.37)
§ 152.08 TREE TOPPING AND STUMP REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, TOPPING is defined as the severe
cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the
tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure
the tree.
   (C)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempt from this section at the determination the City Tree
Advisory Board.
   (D)   All stumps of street park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.09 DANGEROUS TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to cause any tree or shrub which
overhangs any street, sidewalks, alley or other public place in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel, or within ten feet in height of
a street level or seven feet of any sidewalk level, to be trimmed by the owner
of the premises abutting or of the premises on which such tree or shrub grows
so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public way or place shall be
removed by the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.39)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-557.01
§ 152.10 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
   The city shall have a right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.40)
§ 152.11 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Advisory Board.
   (B)   Any person may appeal from any decision of the City Tree Advisory
Board to the City Council which may hear the matter and make the final
decision.
(Prior Code, § 5-4.41)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Adherence to regulations
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Land to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Establishment of zoning districts
   
153.14   Amendments to this chapter
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.25   Floodplain Administrator designation; duties; responsibilities
   
153.26   Permit procedures
   
153.27   Flood data required
   
153.28   Variance and appeals procedures
   
153.29   Conditions for variances
   
153.30   Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
153.45   General standards
   
153.46   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
153.47   Design and construction standards
   
153.48   Nonconforming use
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety, general welfare and property of the people of the state. The
legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 through 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood-prone area. Therefore, the City Council ordains as follows.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation that results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
153.02 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction;
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, is residents and its businesses by preventing excessive and
unsafe development in areas subject to flooding; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.04 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in 44 C.F.R. and the State Minimum
Standards for Floodplain Management Programs as published in the 455 NAC
Chapter 1.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and
roofed structure used exclusively for agricultural purposes or uses in
connection with the production, harvesting, storage, raising or drying of
agricultural commodities and livestock, including aquatic organisms. Structures
that house tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses
are also considered to have agricultural purposes or uses.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   DRAINWAY. See definition for WATERCOURSE.
    EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the flood insurance study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
flood insurance rate map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of “flooding”). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are the same for use by this
chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
OBSTRUCTIONS if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (Neb. RS 46-1601 through 46-1670, as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974, or on or after the community’s initial flood
insurance rate map dated August 4, 2005, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974, or before the community’s initial
flood insurance rate map dated August 4, 2005, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial improvement
and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START
means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land,
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a
historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.06 LAND TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the city
identified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) panel #31069C0900B dated
August 4, 2005, as Zone A and within the zoning district established in §
153.13. In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the City Council or the designated representative may
reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare,
health of the inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in §§
153.25 through
153.30 and
153.45 through
153.48.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.07 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts shall
be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective flood insurance rate map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the
Planning Commission will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation
for the point in question shall be the governing factor in locating the
district boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the
district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her
case to the Planning Commission and to submit his or her own technical
evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate or impair any existent
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur, or the flood height may be increased
by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway
and flood fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damage.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city, or
any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damages that may result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.13 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby established as the floodplain overlay district, and on accompanying FIRM
panels as established in §
153.06. The floodplain overlay district shall correspond to flood Zone A.
Within this district, all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and
those standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.14 AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect
any and all changes in federal, state or local regulations; provided, however,
that no such action may be take until after a public hearing in relation
thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an opportunity to
be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least ten business days shall
elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the State Department of
Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATION; DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Mayor of the community or
his or her designee is hereby designated as the community’s local Floodplain
Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to
administer, implement and enforce all provisions of this chapter. If the local
Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the community CEO shall assume
the duties and responsibilities herein.
   (B)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties of the Floodplain
Administrator shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Review, approve or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits;
      (2)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied;
      (3)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (4)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (5)   Coordinate with the State Department of Natural Resources to obtain
base flood elevation information when applicable and required;
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (8)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain;
      (9)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed;
      (10)   Verify, record and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values;
      (11)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent
with this chapter; and
      (12)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and streets address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction; and
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, water, electrical
and other systems, are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood-resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
   (F)   Federal regulations in 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, parts 65.5 and 65.6 allow
for changes to the special flood hazard area through a letter of map revision
(LOMR) or a letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F), provided the
community determines that the land and any existing or proposed structures that
would be removed from the floodplain are “reasonably safe from flooding.” The
community acknowledgment form asserting this is required for LOMR and LOMR-
F applications and must be signed by the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall not sign a community acknowledgment form unless
all criteria set forth in the following are met.
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F.
      (2)   Applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any existing or
proposed structures will be “reasonably safe from flooding,” according to the
minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
      (3)   All requirements listed in the simplified approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the engineered approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.27 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If flood insurance
study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the flood insurance
study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.28 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, as established by the city, shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the district court as provided in Neb. RS
23-168.02 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-910 (for municipalities).
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Planning Commission shall
consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions, including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets and bridges.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.29 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing the items in divisions (E) through (H)
below have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure on
the National Register of Historic Places and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
in the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (G)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
   (H)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
   (I)   A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or
substantial improvement of accessory structures provided the requirements of
this section and the following are satisfied:
      (1)   The structure represents minimal investment and has low damage
potential (amount of physical damage, contents damage and loss of function);
      (2)   Is larger than the size limits specified in §
153.46(F); and
      (3)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of §
153.46(C).
   (J)   A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or
substantial improvement of agricultural structures provided the requirements of
this section and the following are satisfied:
      (1)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock, or
storage of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses,
and will be restricted to such exclusive uses;
      (2)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage and loss of function);
      (3)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including, but not limited
to, the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock confinement
operations, liquified natural gas terminals and production and storage of
highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials; and
      (4)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of §
153.46(C).
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.30 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023) Penalty, see §
153.99
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 153.45 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood-carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the State Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments.
      (1)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards in division (B)(2) below shall apply:
         (a)   Any development in Zone A without a designated floodway that
will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   Alteration or relocation of a stream.
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
conditional letter of map revision process (as per 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, part
65.12) prior to the permit for the encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator, including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.46 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures. In Zone A, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In Zone A, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above one foot above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §§
153.25 through
153.30.
   (C)   Wet floodproofing for agricultural structures. Wet floodproofing
construction requirements. When owners elect to wet floodproof agricultural
structures, the structure shall:
      (1)   Be anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
      (2)   Have flood damage-resistant materials below the base flood
elevation in compliance with the definition for flood damage-resistant
materials in §
153.05;
      (3)   Have mechanical, electrical and utility equipment in compliance
with the requirements of §
153.47(E); and
      (4)   Have flood openings in compliance with the requirements below.
         (a)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
         (b)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   (D)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every, one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (E)   Appurtenant structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
may have the lowest floor below one foot above base flood elevation; provided,
that the structure complies with the following requirements.
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 800 square feet.
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or other lateral movement.
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every, one square foot of enclosed space.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated or floodproofed to one foot above base flood
elevation.
      (8)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (9)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (F)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within floodplains on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood.
      (2)   Be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of division
(F)(1) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
(4).
      (4)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
153.47(H).
      (5)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance
with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that over-the-top
ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific requirements (or their
equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side; and
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions of this division (G) shall apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any kind
to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed 50% of
the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial improvement and
shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction or improvement of any kind
to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of the
building shall require applicable documentation, including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate or no rise certification.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.47 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities, such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone and other utilities, shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; and/or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems, are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for conditional letters of map revision and a
letters of map revision.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.48 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 48 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 48 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate or other entity that
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or
noncompliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or noncompliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or noncompliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 474, passed 5-11-2023)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cite Code Section
Neb. RS Cite         Code Section
3-501 et seq.        35.46
9-601 et seq.        35.01
10-101 10-143        35.12
10-606 10-612        35.12
11-101               31.03
11-104               31.02
11-105               31.02
11-109               31.02
11-110               31.02
11-111               31.02
11-112               31.02
11-113               31.02
11-114               31.02
11-115               31.02
11-116               31.02
11-117               31.02
11-118               31.02
                     33.30;
13-501 et seq.       35.29;
                     35.31 
                     35.33
13-503               35.01
13-504               35.28
13-505               35.28
13-506               35.29
13-507               35.29
13-508               35.30
13-509               35.30;
                     35.48
13-509.01            35.27
13-509.02            35.27
13-511               35.32
                     35.29;
13-518 13-522        35.30;
                     35.32
13-519               34.04
13-606               35.02
13-801 et seq.       35.46
13-903               35.05
13-2001 et seq.      33.30
13-2501 et seq.      35.46
13-3401 et seq.      35.48
16-318(3)            31.23
16-691.01            35.11
16-714 16-716        35.10
17-040               90.41
17-102               30.15
17-103               30.15
17-104               30.15
17-105               31.47
17-106               31.47
                     30.01;
17-107               30.03;
                     31.20;
                     31.26
17-108               31.04
                     30.02;
17-108.02            30.15;
                     31.06;
                     31.21
17-110               30.02
17-111               30.02
17-112               30.02
17-113               30.02
17-114               30.02
17-117               30.02
                     31.26;
                     32.18;
                     51.02;
17-121               51.05;
                     51.06; Ch. 91;
                     91.01;
                     91.02
                     51.02;
17-123               51.05;
                     51.06
17-129               130.02
17-138               93.11
17-142               130.03;
                     130.04
17-143               110.20
17-148               30.16
17-150               31.29
17-502               11.01
                     33.01;
17-505               50.99;
                     130.06
17-509               151.01
17-509 17-521        151.45
17-510               151.62
17-510 17-512        151.01
17-511               151.61
17-513 17-524        151.01
                     151.35;
17-522               151.45;
                     151.60
17-524               151.45
17-526               93.08;
                     93.12
17-528.02            110.50
17-529               52.060
17-540               35.11
17-547               93.12
17-548               93.12
17-549               92.04
17-552               110.23
17-555               130.03 
                     130.05
                     92.15;
                     92.16;
17-556               130.01;
                     130.02;
                     130.07;
                     131.30
                     130.03;
17-557               130.04;
                     151.68;
                     152.09
17-557.01            152.09
17-558               151.65
17-559               151.65
17-561               110.21
17-563               91.22
17-567               151.02
17-568               31.29
17-568.01            31.29;
                     35.03
17-568.02            35.03
                     51.02;
17-573               51.05;
                     51.06
17-602               34.03
                     31.02;
17-604               31.04;
                     31.20
17-605               31.22
17-606               31.23
17-606(2)            31.23
17-607               35.09
17-608               35.11
17-609               35.11
17-610               31.24
17-611               31.04
17-612               31.04
                     33.04;
17-613               33.06 
                     33.08;
                     35.03
                     10.15;
17-614               33.04;
                     33.05;
                     33.09
17-615               33.07
17-616               33.05
17-701               35.25
17-702               35.08;
                     35.47
17-703               35.06
17-706               35.31
17-708               35.04
17-709               35.04
17-710               35.07
17-711               35.04
17-714               35.05
17-715               35.05
17-720               35.10
17-803               35.11
17-902               110.51
17-919               31.29
17-920               130.05
17-948               90.40
17-951               90.40
17-952               90.40
                     90.56;
17-953               90.57;
                     151.20
17-953 17-955        90.55
17-953.01            151.20
17-954               151.20
18-131               33.06
18-132               33.01;
                     92.03
18-305 18-312        31.05
18-412               33.32
18-412.01            35.03
18-412.02            33.32
18-1216              35.06
18-1701              31.22
18-1719              Ch. 91;
                     110.22
18-1720              Ch. 91
18-1736              72.21
18-1737              72.21;
                     72.27
18-1737(1)           72.22
18-1740              72.26
18-1741.01           72.20
18-1748              151.67
18-1751              151.01
18-1756              35.03
18-1801 18-1805      35.12
18-1910              110.08
18-2001 18-2004      151.64
18-2003              151.64
18-2101 et seq.      35.46
18-2102.01           32.16
18-2501              33.20
18-2501 18-2531      33.32
18-2503 18-2511      33.20
18-2512              33.21
18-2513              33.21
18-2514              33.22
18-2515              33.22
18-2516              33.23
18-2517              33.23
18-2518              33.24
18-2519              33.25
18-2520              33.26
18-2521              33.27
18-2522              33.28
18-2523              33.29
18-2524              33.29
18-2525              33.29
18-2526              33.29
18-2527              33.30
18-2528              33.29;
                     33.30
18-2528(1)           33.30
18-2528(2)           33.30
18-2528(3)           33.30
18-2528(4)           33.30
18-2528(5)           33.30
18-2529              33.31
18-2530              33.31
18-2531              33.31
18-2532 18-2535      33.32
18-2536              33.32
18-2537              33.32
18-2538              33.22
18-2715              32.16
                     35.25;
18-2801 et seq.      35.28;
                     35.33
18-2803              35.33
18-2804              35.02;
                     35.33
18-2805              35.33
18-2806              35.33
18-2807              35.33
18-2808              35.33
18-3301              31.29
19-613               30.15
19-710               91.36
19-901 et seq.       32.16
19-901 19-933        92.03
19-903               32.16
19-905               33.30
19-910               153.28
19-915               33.09
19-916               32.16
19-922               33.01
19-925 19-933        32.16
19-926               32.16
19-927               32.16
19-928               32.16
19-929               32.16
19-930 19-933        32.16
19-1101              31.23
19-1102              31.22
19-1103              31.22;
                     31.23
19-1301              35.08
19-1302              35.08
19-1303              35.08
19-1304              35.08
19-1309              35.45
19-1310              35.45
19-1311              35.45
19-1312              35.45
19-2105              110.35
                     51.02;
19-2106              51.05;
                     51.06;
                     110.35
19-2401              151.01
19-2408 19-2415      151.01
19-2417 19-2419      151.45
19-2427              151.03
19-2428 19-2431      151.01
19-2428 19-2431(2)   151.63
19-2902              35.02
19-2903              35.02
19-2904              35.02
19-2905              35.02
19-2906 19-2909      35.02
19-3041              34.08
19-3101              30.19
19-3301 et seq.      35.46
19-3701              33.08
23-122               31.22
23-168.02            153.28
25-510.02            33.22
25-1801              50.04
25-21,149 25-21,164  33.22
25-21,275            50.04
25-21,276            50.04
25-21,277            50.04
25-21,278            50.04
25-2703              33.01
Ch. 28               70.01
28-515.02            50.03
28-523               90.02
28-1008              93.11
28-1009              93.11
28-1012              93.11
28-1013              93.11
28-1241              92.15
28-1241(7)           92.15;
                     92.16
28-1244              92.16
28-1245              92.15;
                     92.16
29-422 29-429        93.11
29-4001 et seq.      131.15
29-4001.01           131.15
29-4003              131.15
29-4005              131.15
29-4017              131.15
31-1001 31-1023      153.01
                     30.15;
                     33.32;
                     34.01;
32-101 et seq.       34.04;
                     34.06;
                     35.08;
                     35.46
32-101 32-1551       30.01
                     30.02;
32-109               30.15;
                     31.06
32-110               34.03
32-115               34.03
32-404               34.01;
                     34.05
32-405               34.04
32-533               30.01;
                     30.15
32-552               30.15
32-553               30.15
32-554               30.15
32-556               34.01
32-557               30.15;
                     34.06
32-558               34.08
32-559               34.04
                     30.03;
32-560               30.18;
                     30.19
32-560 32-572        30.03;
                     30.18
32-561               30.03;
                     30.18
32-564               34.04
32-568               30.03;
                     30.18
32-569               30.18
                     30.02;
32-603               30.15;
                     31.06
                     30.02;
32-604               30.15;
                     31.06
32-608               34.10
32-615               34.11
32-616               34.11
32-617               34.11
32-618               34.11
32-621               34.11
32-625(2)            34.11
32-627               34.11
32-628               33.23;
                     34.11
32-628 32-631        35.46
32-629               33.23;
                     34.11
32-630               33.23;
                     34.11
32-710               34.11
32-801 32-822        33.28
32-802               34.02;
                     35.46
32-811               34.07
32-918               34.12
32-952 32-959        34.04
32-1033              34.08
32-1122              34.09
32-1201 32-1208      33.28
32-1202              34.04
32-1308              30.03;
                     30.18
32-1525              34.12
33-141               31.23
39-301               130.04
39-302               130.04
Ch. 39, Art. 6       71.01
44-4303              31.30
44-4301 44-4339      31.30
46-1212              151.21
46-1601 46-1670      153.05
48-1503              35.03
49-801(16)           10.05
49-1408              31.05
49-1425              31.05
49-1499.03 49-14,103 31.05
49-1499.04           31.05
49-14,102            31.05
49-14,103.01         31.05
49-14,103.02         31.05
49-14,103.03         31.05
49-14,103.04         31.05
49-14,103.05         31.05
49-14,103.06         31.05
51-201               35.46;
                     90.15
51-201 51-219        32.15;
                     90.16
51-201.01            90.20
51-202               32.15
51-204               32.15
51-205               90.16
51-206               90.19
51-207               90.16
51-209               90.15
51-210               90.17
                     90.16;
51-211               90.20;
                     90.21
51-212               90.20
51-213               90.22
51-214               90.23
51-215               35.08;
                     90.24
51-216               35.08;
                     90.18
51-501               35.46
Ch. 53, Art. 1       112.01
53-101 et seq.       112.03;
                     112.05
53-103.01 53-103.51  112.02
53-123.12            112.03
53-124               112.03
53-124.01            112.03
53-124.17            112.03
53-129               112.03
53-131               112.03
53-132               112.03
53-133               112.03
53-134               112.03
53-134.03            112.03
53-134.04            112.05
53-135.01            112.03
53-179               112.06
53-1,115             112.05
54-603               93.08
55-133               70.02
57-5716 et seq.      131.02
60-331.01 et seq.    72.26
                     72.21;
60-331.01            72.22;
                     72.25
60-462 et seq.       70.03
Ch. 60, Art. 6       71.01
                     70.02;
60-601 et seq.       70.03;
                     73.03
60-606 60-676        70.02;
                     71.01
60-607               70.02
60-610               70.02
60-613               70.02
60-624               70.02;
                     73.15
60-631               70.02
60-636 60-640        73.01
60-638               70.02
60-646               70.02
60-654               70.02
60-656               70.02
60-658.01            70.02
60-661               70.02
60-669               70.02
60-670               70.02
60-671               70.02
60-672               70.02
60-676               70.02
                     Ch. 70;
60-680               71.01;
                     72.01; Ch. 73;
                     73.02
60-681               71.05
60-683               Ch. 70;
                     70.03
60-3,113 et seq.     72.24
60-3,113             72.21;
                     72.22
                     72.20;
60-3,113.02          72.23;
                     72.24
                     72.20;
60-3,113.03          72.23;
                     72.24
60-4,126             73.17
60-6,118             70.02
60-6,118 60-6,121    71.04
60-6,131             71.01
60-6,142             73.02
60-6,154             71.02
60-6,165             72.40
60-6,167             72.07
60-6,185             71.20;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I
60-6,186             71.21;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I
60-6,187             71.21
60-6,188             71.21
60-6,190             71.21;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. I
60-6,196 et seq.     73.03
60-6,305             71.21
60-6,313             71.21
60-6,315             73.02
60-6,316             73.02
60-6,317             73.02
60-6,318             73.02
60-6,354             73.01
60-6,355             73.15
60-6,356             73.19
60-1903              91.21
64-118               11.01
70-504               33.32
70-624.04            31.05
70-650.01            33.32
70-1601 70-1615      50.03
70-1602              50.02
70-1605              50.02
70-1606              50.02
70-1607              50.02
70-1608 70-1614      50.02
70-1615              50.02
71-1572 et seq.      32.19;
                     32.20
71-1637              35.46
71-1908 et seq.      131.15
71-4408              93.12
72-1237 et seq.      35.11
72-1261 et seq.      35.11
Ch. 72, Art. 14      151.20
73-101               35.03
73-101 et seq.       35.03
76-704 76-724        90.17
77-1601              35.48
77-1606              35.46
77-1632              35.48
77-1633              35.48
77-2201              31.23
77-2201 77-2215      31.23
77-2202              31.23
77-2209              31.23
77-2210              31.23
77-2212              31.23
77-2337              35.08
77-2341              35.11
77-2362              35.09
77-2363              35.09
77-2364              35.09
77-2365.01           35.09;
                     35.10
77-2366              35.09;
                     35.10
77-2386 et seq.      35.09
77-23,109 et seq.    35.11
77-3442              35.46;
                     90.15
77-3443              35.46;
                     90.15
77-3444              34.04;
                     35.46
Ch. 79               131.15
79-3401 et seq.      35.48
80-202               35.46
80-203 80-205        33.32
81-145 81-161.06     35.03
81-201               93.11
81-502               92.03
81-829.51            35.32
81-8,129             130.08
81-8,142             130.08
81-2005              Ch. 70
81-3423              151.21
81-3445              151.21
81-3449              151.21
81-3453              151.21
84-712 84-712.09     31.22;
                     31.23
84-712(2)            31.22
84-1201 et seq.      31.22
84-1407 et seq.      31.46;
                     31.50
84-1408              31.46
84-1408 84-1414      32.22
84-1409              31.45
84-1410              31.49
84-1411              31.46;
                     31.48
84-1411(5)           31.48
84-1411(8)           31.46
84-1412              31.50
84-1413              31.52;
                     31.54
                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2025 Code
Prior Code 2025 Code
1-1.19     10.99
2-1.1      11.01
2-1.2      11.02
2-1.4      31.51
2-1.7      31.55
2-1.14     31.06
2-1.18     31.01
2-1.26     31.30
2-3.6      31.25
2-3.8      31.26
2-3.10     31.28
2-3.11     31.27
2-4.1      32.01
2-4.4      32.17
2-4.6      32.19
2-4.7      32.21
2-4.8      32.22
2-5.1      32.35
2-6.1      35.03
2-6.26     32.20
2-6.27     32.20
2-6.28     32.20
2-6.29     32.20
2-6.30     32.20
2-7.5      34.07
2-7.11     34.08
2-7.12     34.09
2-7.14     33.20
2-7.15     33.21
2-7.16     33.22
2-7.17     33.23
2-7.18     33.24
2-7.19     33.25
2-7.20     33.26
2-7.21     33.27
2-7.22     33.28
2-7.23     33.29
2-7.24     33.30
2-7.25     33.31
2-7.26     33.32
3-1.1      50.01
3-1.4      50.05
3-1.5      50.06
3-1.6      50.99
3-2.1      52.001
3-2.2      52.002
3-2.3      52.020
3-2.4      52.021
3-2.5      52.022
3-2.6      52.023
3-2.7      52.035
3-2.8      52.036
3-2.9      52.037
3-2.10     52.038
3-2.11     52.039
3-2.12     52.040
3-2.13     52.041
3-2.14     52.042
3-2.15     52.043
3-2.16     52.044
3-2.17     52.045
3-2.18     52.046
3-2.19     52.075
3-2.20     52.076
3-2.21     52.060;
           52.999
3-2.22     52.061
3-2.23     52.062
3-2.24     52.063
3-2.25     52.003
3-2.26     52.004
3-2.27     52.005;
           52.999
3-2.28     52.999
3-2.29     52.064
3-3.1      53.01
3-3.2      53.02
3-3.3      53.03
3-3.4      53.04
3-3.5      53.05
3-3.6      53.06
3-4.1      51.01
3-4.2      51.02
3-4.3      51.03
3-4.4      51.04
3-4.5      51.05
3-4.6      51.06
3-4.7      51.07
3-4.8      51.08
4-1.1      70.01
4-1.3      70.04
4-1.4      70.05
4-2.1      71.01
4-2.2      71.02
4-2.3      71.03
4-2.4      71.04
4-2.5      71.05
4-2.6      71.06
4-2.7      71.07
4-2.8      Ch. 74, Sched. I
4-2.10     73.01
4-2.11     73.02
4-2.12     73.03
           73.15 
4-2.13     73.19;
           73.99
4-3.8      72.04;
           72.99; Ch. 75, Sched. I
4-3.9      72.20
4-3.10     72.21
4-3.11     72.22
4-3.12     72.23
4-3.13     72.24
4-3.14     72.25
4-3.15     72.26
4-3.16     72.27
4-3.18     72.99
4-3.19     72.99
4-3.20     72.99
4-3.21     72.99
4-3.22     72.41
4-4.01     130.01
4-4.06     130.06
4-4.08     130.08
4-5.1      131.01;
           131.99
4-5.2      131.02
4-5.3      131.15;
           131.99
5-1.12     90.40
5-1.13     90.41
5-1.14     90.01
5-1.15     90.02
5-1.16     90.03
5-1.17     90.55
5-1.18     90.56
5-1.19     90.57
5-2.1      92.01
5-2.2      92.02
5-2.3      92.03
5-2.4      92.04
5-2.5      92.15
5-2.6      92.16
5-3.3      91.16
5-3.4      91.17
5-3.5      91.18
5-3.6      91.35
5-3.7      91.36
5-3.8      91.99
5-3.9      91.37
5-3.10     91.19;
           91.20
5-3.11     91.21
5-3.12     91.38
5-3.13     150.01 
           150.07
5-4.1      Ch. 74, Sched. I
5-4.3      151.03
5-4.7      151.04
5-4.9      151.35
5-4.11     151.36
5-4.12     151.37
5-4.14     151.38
5-4.15     151.39
5-4.16     151.40
5-4.17     151.41
5-4.18     151.42
5-4.19     151.43
5-4.21     151.60
5-4.24     151.61
5-4.25     151.62
5-4.26     151.63
5-4.31     152.01
5-4.32     152.02
5-4.33     152.03
5-4.34     152.04
5-4.35     152.05
5-4.36     152.06
5-4.37     152.07
5-4.38     152.08
5-4.39     152.09
5-4.40     152.10
5-4.41     152.11
5-5.1      93.01
5-5.2      93.02
5-5.3      93.03;
           93.99
5-5.4      93.04;
           93.99
5-5.5      93.05
5-5.6      93.06
5-5.7      93.07
5-5.8      93.08
5-5.11     93.09
5-5.13     93.99
6-1.1      110.01
6-1.2      110.02
6-1.3      110.03
6-1.4      110.04
6-1.5      110.05
6-1.6      110.06
6-1.7      110.07
6-1.8      110.08
6-1.9      110.20
6-1.10     110.21
6-1.11     110.22
6-1.12     110.23
6-1.13     110.35
6-1.14     110.36
6-1.15     110.50
6-1.16     110.51
6-2.1      112.01
6-2.2      112.04
6-3.1      111.01
6-3.2      111.02
6-3.3      111.03
6-3.4      111.04
6-3.5      111.05
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
303      4-5-1990    32.22
00-05    3-28-2000   71.04
                     153.01 
                     153.14;
                     153.25 
474      5-11-2023   153.30;
                     153.45 
                     153.48;
                     153.99
479      12-14-2023  35.03
482      10-10-2024  10.99
483      10-10-2024  71.08;
                     71.99
                     93.01;
484      4-10-2025   93.07;
                     93.08;
                     93.12
                    
 
