PENDER, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 709, passed 5-12-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village of Pender
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited. It may be cited as “this code of
ordinances,” “this code” or “the code” in this code of ordinances.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual, sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and the adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Thurston, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Pender,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders;
      (2)   Words in the singular shall include the plural and words in the
plural shall include the singular; and
      (3)   The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure
to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever in any action it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.04   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.05   Standing committees
   
30.06   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.07   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.20   Grant of power
   
30.21   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.22   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.23   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.24   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.25   Publication or posting
   
30.26   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.27   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.28   Amendments and revisions
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees, which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter, the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act (Neb. RS 32-101). The terms shall begin on the first regular
meeting of the Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in division (A) above, the term of each Board
member shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS 13-801 et seq. with the county in
which the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village is located to
provide for joint and cooperative action to abate, remove or prevent nuisances
within such extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of the
village and the County Board shall first approve such interlocal agreement by
ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 30.03 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every Village Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of this state and faithfully and impartially to discharge the
duties of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and
meet on the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December
thereafter, organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and appoint
the officers required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.04 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have the power to
appoint a Chairperson Pro Tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson Pro Tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.06 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village-elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting, at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village-elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 to 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.07 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The Board shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s absence
from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk;
or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the next
regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing and
direct the Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by personal service
or first-class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.20 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to enforce
all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not
exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.21 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.22 of this chapter for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by
the resolution or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority
vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any
resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.22 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.23 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Pender, Nebraska:...”.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.24 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees votes to suspend this
requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the
annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for village Board of
Trustees election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided by law. In case
this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then
moved for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a
reading of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure
set out in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract, by the Board of Trustees, the
yeas and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw,
ordinance or any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the
whole number of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All
appointments of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce,
and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of
those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment shall
be recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows
the yeas and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by
the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.25 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, or
if no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed
copy in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
§ 30.26 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.27 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.25 of this chapter and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government
of the village which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without
submission to the voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days
after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.28 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   Village Clerk
   
31.05   Village Treasurer
   
31.06   Village Attorney
   
31.07   Overseer of Streets
   
31.08   Chief of Police
   
31.09   Fire Chief
   
31.10   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.11   Village Engineer; Special Engineer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Overseer of the Streets and Chief of Police, and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Chief of Police or any other
police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal, demotion or
suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board of Trustees
may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer of the Streets,
members of the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular
police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.25 and
33.26 of this code. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond
shall qualify by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.26 of this code.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment, or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.04 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, being Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may
transfer the journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State
Archives of the Nebraska State Historical Society for permanent preservation.
The Clerk shall also perform such other duties as may be required by the
ordinances of the village. If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she
shall also comply with the requirements of §
31.05(A)(3) of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or to any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 to 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants
drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed,
in part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
§ 31.05 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the Treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson, with the
advice and consent of the Board, may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually, within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year, a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201 to 77-
2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 to 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Board of
Trustees, have general charge, direction and control of all works on streets,
sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the village, and shall perform such other
duties as the Board may direct.
(Neb. RS 17-214)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.08 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Village Chief of Police shall at all times have the power to make
or order an arrest, with proper process, for any offense against the laws of
the state or ordinances of the village and bring the offender to trial before
the proper officer, and to arrest without process in all cases where any such
offense shall be committed or attempted to be committed in his or her presence.
(Neb. RS 17-213)
   (B)   The Village Chief of Police shall direct the police work of the
village and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless
the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, he or she shall act as Health
Inspector and Building Inspector. He or she shall file the necessary complaints
in cases arising out of violations of village ordinances and shall make all
necessary reports required by the village ordinances or the laws of the state.
   (C)   If the village has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Village Chief of Police and village police officers as specified in the
agreement.
§ 31.09 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
Cross-reference:
   Fire department provisions, see §§
32.15 to
32.24
§ 31.10 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains, or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply, has been established by
the village, the Chairperson shall nominate and, by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint any competent person, who shall
be known as the Water Commissioner of the village and whose term of office
shall be for one fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. Annually at the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in
December, the Water Commissioner shall be appointed as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the Board of Trustees. Any vacancy occurring in
the office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office or
removal from the village may be filled in the manner provided in this section
for the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the village in a sum to be fixed by the Board of
Trustees, but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
his or her duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Board of Trustees or executed by a
corporate surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Board of
Trustees, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains, or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply, in the village.
      (5)   In a village where no Board of Public Works exists, and the village
has other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Board of Trustees
shall by ordinance designate the Water Commissioner as Public Works
Commissioner, with the authority to manage not only the system of waterworks
but also other public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A)
applying to the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works
Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
village on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the Village Treasurer, taking his or her receipt
therefor in duplicate, filing one of the same with the Village Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the Board of Trustees, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, and of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs and machinery, and of such improvements,
repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Board of
Trustees may by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation,
the Board shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   If the village owns public utilities other than the waterworks
system and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the
Public Works Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all
provisions of this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall
apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
§ 31.11 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Board of Health
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Park Commissioners
Fire Department
   
32.15   Operation and funding
   
32.16   Fire Chief
   
32.17   Membership
   
32.18   Records
   
32.19   Fires
   
32.20   Distant fires
   
32.21   Inspections
   
32.22   Notice of violation
   
32.23   Power of arrest
   
32.24   Fire investigation
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
Chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as Secretary and
Quarantine Officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of the village and prevent nuisances
and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such rules and
regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection
during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the General Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
Cross-reference:
   Health and safety regulations, see
Chapter 91
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five, seven or nine regular members, as specified by the Board of Trustees by
ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, by and with the approval of a majority
vote of the members elected to the Board. Two of the regular members may be
residents of the area over which the village is authorized to exercise
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When there are 200
residents in the area over which the village exercises extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a
resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that 200
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, then the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three
years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first
commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or
fewer for terms of two years and the remaining members for terms of three
years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors are
appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees,
be removed by the Chairperson of the Board, with the consent of a majority vote
of the members elected to the Board, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may, with the approval of
a majority vote of the elected members of the Board, appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the alternate
member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be removed from
office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position
becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson of the
Board, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the
Board. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting
and participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except member of the Village Board of Trustees,
member of any community redevelopment authority or limited community
redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01 or member of any
citizen advisory review committee created under Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Board of Trustees may require
the Commission to meet more frequently, and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but not more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public
record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and the Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the
full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the
Village Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during
office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board, and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
village, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s
judgment, bear relation to the planning of such village, and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested village departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Board of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter, or within such other number of days as the Board of Trustees has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for the subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Board of Trustees has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the village;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency and receive grants, remuneration
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Board of
Trustees has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally
authorized the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the
standards and procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and
judiciously granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting
of a conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property
owners to put their property to a special use if it is among those uses
specifically identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses
which may require special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners
before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Board of Trustees
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Board may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Board regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the District Court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 to 19-933
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (C) below, the Board
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken
by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (G)
below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above and division (D)
below, the Board of Trustees may, except as set forth in division (C) below,
provide by ordinance that it shall constitute a Board of Adjustment, and in the
regulations and restrictions adopted pursuant to the authority of Neb. RS 19-
901 to 19-905 may provide that as such Board of Adjustment it may exercise only
the powers granted to boards of adjustment by division (G) below. As such Board
of Adjustment, it shall adopt rules and procedures that are in harmony with
division (A) above and divisions (D), (F) and (G) below and shall have the
powers and duties therein provided for the Board of Adjustment, and other
parties shall have all the rights and privileges therein provided for. The
concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees acting as
a Board of Adjustment shall decide any question upon which it is required to
pass as such Board.
(Neb. RS 19-911)
   (C)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
Board of Trustees, serve as the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the village. If
the village is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request
or otherwise only by the county zoning board of adjustment of the county in
which the greatest area of the village is located, and the jurisdiction of such
county zoning board of adjustment shall include all portions of the village and
its extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village at such time
as more than 200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at
least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the
corporate boundaries of the village but within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (E)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other village office except
for the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (F)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the village
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (G)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the Board of Trustees, have
only the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the Board of Trustees or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01, and division (D) above and this division (G), would result in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (G), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to
effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (H)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board
or bureau of the village, may present to the District Court a petition, duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the Court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board. Upon the filing of such petition, a summons shall be issued and be
served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition.
Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the
summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of
Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the
substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the
Board with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition.
The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At
the expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear
and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon
according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court
that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may
take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and
report the same to the Court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions
of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the
determination of the Court shall be made. The Court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the District Court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the Court may on application, on notice to the Board and on due cause
shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the District
Court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the state
regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees has provided for the creation of a Board of
Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners pursuant to
Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three members, who
shall be residents of the village, and who shall have charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the village, and shall have the power to
establish rules for the management, care and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall serve as a member of the Park
Board while serving a term of office as a member of the Board of Trustees. The
members of the Park Board shall serve terms of office of the length specified
by the Board of Trustees and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Park Board shall organize at its meeting after appointments are
regularly considered by the Board of Trustees and select members to serve as
chairperson and secretary. No member of the Park Board shall hold more than one
Board position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and file the same with the Village Clerk, where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Park Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson of the
Park Board or any two members of the Board. A majority of the Park Board
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Park Board shall serve without compensation. The
Park Board shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time out of
the General Fund.
   (F)   All members of the Park Board shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may, from
time to time, designate.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a voluntary Fire Department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the village for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon the collection of such tax, the Village
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.16 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hoses,
ladders or other apparatus need repair. Upon the written consent and directive
of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Board of
Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the proposed
additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.17 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. The members may organize themselves in any way they
may decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company, to the value
of $500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the village while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the state’s Worker’s Compensation Act, being Neb. RS
48-101 et seq., shall be recommended by the Fire Chief, or some person
authorized to act for the Chief, for membership therein to the Chairperson and
Board of Trustees, and upon confirmation, shall be deemed employees of the
village. Members of the Fire Department after confirmation to membership may be
removed by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees, and thereafter, shall not
be considered employees of the village. Firefighters of the Fire Department
shall be considered as acting in the performance and within the course and
scope of their employment when performing activities outside of the corporate
limits of the village, but only if directed to do so by the Fire Chief or some
person authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one village or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first village or district which he or she
serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death
from any cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a
permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall
terminate as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of
the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For the purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee or mileage fee by an employee of the village called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the village.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The Board of Trustees may compensate or reimburse any member of the
Fire Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an
amount set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Board of Trustees. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the village code or
the laws of the state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The Secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the
Board of Trustees of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 32.18 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members and a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk
during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include
the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal
conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the
Fire Chief shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by
insurance, and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the
public at any reasonable time.
§ 32.19 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the village and to secure
the observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.20 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or the
Fire Chief, or pursuant to any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual
aid protection, such fire equipment of the village as may be designated by the
Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees or the Fire Chief, or some person authorized to
act for the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the village
as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
§ 32.21 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, where a fire department is established, or the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees where no fire department exists, at all
reasonable hours may enter into all buildings and upon all premises within his
or her jurisdiction for the purpose of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-
501.01 to 81-531, the state’s Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the
Petroleum Products and Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act, being
Neb. RS 81-15,117 et seq. and any other statutory duties imposed upon the State
Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
Board of Trustees, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares,
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The
inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids,
combustibles and explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and
adequacy of exits, in case of fires in schools, churches, hotels, halls,
theaters, factories, hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of
persons congregate from time to time for any purpose, whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation and operation
of equipment for storing, handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases,
specifying the odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals,
prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that
may now or hereafter exist.
§ 32.22 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the village code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after such an order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the Board of Trustees requesting a review, and it
shall be the duty of the Board of Trustees to hear the same within not less
than five days nor more than ten days from the time when the request was filed
in writing with the Village Clerk. The Board of Trustees shall then affirm,
modify or rescind the order as safety and justice may require and the decision
shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may
have at law or equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it
is evident that reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a
variance due to the probable hardship in complying literally with the order of
the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire
Chief and the owner, occupant or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.23 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of village police officers to command all persons to assist them in
the performance of their duties. Failure to obey a lawful order of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall be an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.24 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of
the fire furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Village Board meetings; when; where; quorum
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.09   Public participation
   
33.10   Village Board; order of business
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   Village Board; parliamentary procedure
   
33.13   Minutes
   
33.14   Village Board; change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Bonds; requirements
   
33.26   Oath of office; village officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
33.55   Publication of notices
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of this
state, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of this state, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, being
Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s website; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except items of an emergency nature, the agenda
shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of
the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the
Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city. The
public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an
emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.04 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   The meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the meeting place
of the municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Monday each
month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also be
called by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a special
meeting shall be submitted to the Village Clerk in writing. The call and
object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal
by the Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk shall notify
the members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time
and its purpose.
   (C)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
   (D)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
(Ord. 658, passed 5-10-2021; Ord. 709, passed 5-12-2025)
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunications equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 of this chapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the
emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to
the public by not later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness, other
than a member of the public body, to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual, and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close.
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purposes of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order or ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(2)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.08 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq. No closed session, informal
meeting, chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax or electronic
communication shall be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements
of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, being Neb. RS
84-1407 et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at
meetings of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body,
except for closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.07 of this chapter, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or
recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera,
video equipment or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in
writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in a paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, posted in the meeting room at a location that is accessible to
members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be
informed about the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 33.10 VILLAGE BOARD; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
Cross-reference:
   Votes on ordinances, appropriations of money and contracts, see §
30.24
§ 33.12 VILLAGE BOARD; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of
parliamentary procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of
the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of
the Board of Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an
appeal to the Board.
   (B)   When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until
the point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person
shall leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall
rise from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking
shall confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons
rise at once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first.
   (C)   All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being
acted upon, if requested by the Village Clerk or any member of the Board. Every
member of the Board who is present when a question is voted upon shall cast his
or her vote unless excused by a majority of the members of the Board present.
No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be
stated by the Chairperson before being debatable. In all cases where a motion
or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the Board
making the motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the
“yeas” and “nays”" shall be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the vote
is actually taken, any resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be
withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the consent of the member of
the Board seconding the resolution, motion or ordinance.
   (D)   When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or amounts
are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the longest
time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member voting
with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate.
   (E)   Any of the rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-
thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not
made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
Board shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.13 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.14 VILLAGE BOARD; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson Pro Tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the Board the names of all
Trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board shall
examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of the
village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village ordinance. The
Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.25 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance, may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts that are fixed by law or by the Board of
Trustees, and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Nebraska Constitution Art. XVII, § 5.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties, who
shall be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any
official bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal
and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or
more such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom, by law, bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved, as provided by law, and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show-cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor, or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering
upon their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which
shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds.
 
“I, _______________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and
without mental reservation or for purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
____________________, according to law, and to the best of my ability. And I do
further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party
or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
in this position I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party
or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence. So help me God.”
 
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and, upon Village Board of Trustees approval,
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work, subject to §
33.41 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty the doing or performance of which shall come within
the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03 of this code, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of
Trustees, or any other board or commission having more than one member, and the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times, the
compensation of all members of such board or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person
who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same
during the time for which he or she was elected if during the same time the
salary was increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value, or which represents more than a 5% equity interest
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value, or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body, and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purposes of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a CONTRACT
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) to (H) above, the governing body may
prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) to (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 to 18-312 and
49-1499.03 to 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 33.55 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   If the village is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. If there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in such county, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy
thereof in each of three public places in the village for the same period of
time the village is required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper.
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certification
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Caucus candidates
   
34.10   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.11   Recall procedure
   
34.12   Exit polls; poll watchers
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-
101 et seq. and in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the village shall be held as provided
in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the village.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the election commissioner or county clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on
or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail, as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 to 32-959. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting, and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in section
Neb. RS 32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   Not later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the length
of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
the remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for the purposes of the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Such
ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall be
adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate for the Board of Trustees may place his or her name on
the general election ballot by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the
Secretary of State as provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an
incumbent of an elective office, the filing period for filing the candidate
filing form shall be between January 5 and July 15 prior to the date of the
primary election. No incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the
expiration of his or her term shall file for any office after July 15 of that
election year. All other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and
August 1 prior to the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for village
office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund
of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash, except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of the nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village
election. This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing
deadline for that election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of
the caucus in at least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
county at least once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk in writing of the candidates so nominated not later
than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk shall then notify the
persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to take place not
later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated shall have his
or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the
holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if
any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 34.10 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, or files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in §
34.07 of this chapter. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform
to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination
shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment
of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be
filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.11 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the Filing Clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the Filing Clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the Filing Clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The Filing Clerk shall notify the Trustee by any method specified
in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable
diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a
copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual place of residence and mailing a
copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last known address. If the Trustee
chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise language of 60
words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall
be submitted to the Filing Clerk within 20 days after the Trustee receives the
copy of the filing form. The Filing Clerk shall prepare the petition papers
within five business days after receipt of the defense statement. The principal
circulator or circulators shall gather the petition papers within 20 days after
being notified by the Filing Clerk that the petition papers are available. The
Filing Clerk shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (4)   The Filing Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The Filing
Clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the Filing Clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the Filing Clerk within 30 days after the Filing Clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
Filing Clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
Filing Clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the Filing Clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
Filing Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, or if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee’s usual place of
residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last known
address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the Filing Clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall election shall be
held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the Filing Clerk that he
or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office, or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office, or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 34.12 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter, as
described in Neb. RS 32-918, unless selected by the voter to provide assistance
as provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Transfer of funds
   
35.34   Budget revision
   
35.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.50   Sales and use tax imposed
   
35.51   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.52   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.53   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.54   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.55   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.56   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.57   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
35.58   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the village that provides for a biennial period
to determine and carry on the village’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium, commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years, used by the village in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the state’s County and Village Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the village from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant, and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto, presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village, or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed, and the annual audit
report made by the accountant shall be submitted, within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS
84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise
which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have
that phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other
functions of the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in
the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit
shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial statements
or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the accountant is
unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the reasons why he or
she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, see Neb. RS 19-2906 to 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The governing body shall, before making any contract in excess
of $30,000, as estimated by the Village Engineer, for enlargement or general
improvements such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges
or work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
improvement shall be assessed to the property, advertise for bids unless such
contract shall be entered into for the benefit of the village electric utility.
      (2)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for any such
work or improvement, or for the purchase of such equipment, without advertising
for bids if:
         (a)   The price is $30,000 or less;
         (b)   The price is $60,000 or less and the village electric utility
has a gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of one million dollars;
         (c)   The price is $90,000 or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of five million dollars;
or
         (d)   The price is $120,000 or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of ten million dollars.
      (3)   In advertising for bids for any such work, or for the purchase of
such equipment, the governing body may cause the amount of such estimate to be
published therewith.
   (B)   Such advertisement shall be published at least seven days prior to the
bid closing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or any exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of, or serious injury or damage to, life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (C)   If, after advertising for bids as provided herein, the Board of
Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract, or if the bids received by
the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost of the
project, the Board of Trustees shall have the authority to negotiate a contract
for services, material or labor in an attempt to complete the proposed project
at a cost commensurate with the estimate given.
   (D)   If materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the Board of Trustees
may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may
thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the
manufacturer.
   (E)   The village biding procedure shall be waived when materials or
equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same seller as materials
or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the state bidding
procedure.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01 and 17-613) (Ord. 653, passed 3-8-2021)
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05 of this chapter, and funds for the class or object out of which such
claim is payable have been included in the adopted budget statement or
transferred according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has
not been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited unless the recovery
is for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement, and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists, at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions
related thereto, including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided, in the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax, of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year, upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, the village has been in default in
the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years
prior to the date of passage of the resolution providing for the submission of
the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in division
(C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   (1)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any
annual tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in
division (B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its
purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the
next general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located.
      (2)   No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been
authorized by a majority or more of the legal votes of the village cast for or
against the proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the
establishment of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made,
no annual tax shall be levied therefor and no sinking fund or sinking funds
shall be established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission
shall immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election
in the manner prescribed in this division, the Board of Trustees and its
successors in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such
resolution of submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election
provided for under this section shall be conducted as provided under the
Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
35.11 of this chapter. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are
made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to
the Board of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of
record by the Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The
sinking fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this
section shall constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes
for which the same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose
unless authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a
general election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking
funds; provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund
or sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit for safekeeping in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time, less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or giving of security. The Village
Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of
the failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 to 16-716 as of the time the deposit is made.
Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board
so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the state’s Capital Expansion Act, being Neb.
RS 72-1260 et seq. and the State Funds Investment Act, being Neb. RS 72-1237 et
seq., and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the state’s
Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State
Investment Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of the current
authorized investment guidelines of the state’s Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 to 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 to 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the
purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case
of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the village
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which operates in a proprietary capacity,
the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards or debit
cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for the use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the Director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director and representatives from
counties, cities, villages and other political subdivisions as may be
appropriate. The committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or
more credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant
banks for services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, villages
and political subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the
purposes of this section, any negotiated discount, processing or transaction
fee imposed by a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank as an administrative expense. If the Board of Trustees chooses
not to participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards,
charge cards and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card or debit card companies or
third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) above. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized but not required to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by non-paper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except
as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year, or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the Board of
Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the
village. Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget
in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees
in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be
charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided
in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a
proposed budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the
public prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.29 of this chapter.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a
grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice,
the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the state’s Budget Act
or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall correct any
such error as provided in §
35.34 of this chapter. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the
budget adopted under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or
noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year, or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance
for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
35.28 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the state’s
Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual
Appropriation Bill,” in which the Board may appropriate those sums of money as
may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the
village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the village has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
Board of Trustees that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may, by a majority vote, unless
otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 of this chapter or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the Board who obligate funds contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, such that
the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522;
or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
state’s Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose; and
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
of Trustees shall file with the county clerk of the county in which the Board
of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds which are derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29 of this chapter, the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after
notification of an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall,
correct an adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting
error which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or
increase the amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be
required for such a correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall
file a copy of the corrected budget with the county clerk of the county in
which the Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures
authorized by the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s General Fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, the actual and estimated revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual
unencumbered cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount
received from taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure,
whichever is applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted, or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the state’s Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the General Fund
of the village shall be shown as a source of revenue in the village budget
statement created pursuant to the state’s Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.50 SALES AND USE TAX IMPOSED.
   The Village Board hereby imposes a perpetual 1.5% sales and use tax upon the
same transactions within the village on which this state is authorized to
impose a sales tax, to be allocated as follows:
   (A)   One percent for the purpose of infrastructure replacement and
improvement and new infrastructure; and
   (B)   One-half percent for street improvements.
(Ord. 636, passed 11-28-2018)
§ 35.51 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The village shall have the power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes
in any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all
the taxable property in the village. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.52 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The village shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.53 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the state statutes and this code to the
contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for the collection of one all-purpose levy, required to be
raised by taxation, for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule
of levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.54 of this chapter, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of
$1.05 on each $100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in
the village. Otherwise, authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay
bonded indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to
such all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manner as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.54 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637 or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS
80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the
Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which require
or obligate the village to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport, are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., and community
redevelopment authorities established under the Community Development Law, may
be allocated property taxes as authorized by law which are authorized by the
village and are counted in the village levy limit provided by division (A)
above, except that such limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport. The Board of Trustees shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B).
The Board of Trustees may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the village may be exceeded as provided in division
(C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. For
petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May
1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 to 32-
631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass not more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of taking
action to exceed the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of
the registered voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are
present at the meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the
secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.55 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.56 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be not more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, village, school district
or community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than
the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with
the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions
(C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax
request for the current year shall be not more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) below. If the Board of
Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by
law after holding the public hearing required in division (C) below and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any
county, village, school district or community college seeks to increase its
property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such
political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purposes of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustees’ principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior year
to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage of increase or decrease in the property tax rate
from the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage of increase or decrease in the total operating
budget from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by _____ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $_____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of village) proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $_____ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of village) will exceed last
year’s by _____ percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 35.57 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
village, school district or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24, and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated representative
of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision’s budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by _____ percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $_____ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $_____ per $100 of
assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by _____ percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in subdivision (C)
(9) below to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall notify
the County Assessor of the date, time and location of the joint public hearing
not later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each participating
political subdivision of the date, time and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to subdivision (C)(9) below to a printing service
designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the postcards
shall be paid from the county’s General Fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at
least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating
and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials and postage, shall
be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions participating in the
joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each participating
political subdivision. Each participating political subdivision shall also
maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision’s website to the political subdivision’s proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
city with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   The postcard sent under this division (C) and the notice posted on
the county’s website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) above, and published
in the newspaper shall include the date, time and location for the joint public
hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political subdivision that
will be participating in the joint public hearing and the amount of each
participating political subdivision’s property tax request. The postcard shall
also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(9)(a) above;
         (c)   The following statement:
 
   The following political subdivisions are proposing a revenue increase which
would result in an overall increase in property taxes in (insert current tax
year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice
contains estimates of the tax on your property as a result of this revenue
increase. These estimates are calculated on the basis of the proposed (insert
current tax year) data. The actual tax on your property may vary from these
estimates.
 
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement:
 
   To obtain more information regarding the tax increase, citizens may contact
the political subdivision at the telephone number provided in this notice.
 
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above, the
governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property tax
request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by _____ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $_____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $_____ per $100 of assessed
value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision) will
exceed last year’s by _____ percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
         (c)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
         (d)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
         (e)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
         (f)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint
public hearing.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
§ 35.58 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the Board of
Trustees shall have the power to require any individual whose primary residence
or person who owns a place of business which is within the limits of the
village, and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such limits, to pay
an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such fee upon the
change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be provided for
under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing, repairing,
maintaining or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or parts thereof
or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee that is
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, being Neb. RS 60-301 et seq. when reporting information to
the Vehicle Title and Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, being Neb. RS 60-101 et seq.
is different from the place at which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is, or person who owns a place of business,
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the road fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Introduction
   
36.001   Purpose and introduction
   
36.002   Disclaimer
General
   
36.015   General purpose and scope
   
36.016   Nature of the employment relationship
   
36.017   Equal employment opportunity
   
36.018   Violation of individual rights; hate crime
   
36.019   Harassment
   
36.020   Definitions
   
36.021   Employee personnel records
   
36.022   References
   
36.023   Confidentiality
Hours and Attendance
   
36.035   Working hours
   
36.036   Hours of work and overtime
   
36.037   Work schedule
   
36.038   Attendance
   
36.039   Breaks and meal periods
   
36.040   Call back
   
36.041   Weekend duties
   
36.042   Payroll records
Recruiting and Hiring
   
36.055   Recruiting
   
36.056   Hiring
   
36.057   Temporary employees
   
36.058   Probationary period
   
36.059   Employment of relatives (nepotism)
   
36.060   Promotions and transfers
Compensation
   
36.075   Salary classification and grades
   
36.076   Employee pay rates
   
36.077   Paydays
   
36.078   Deductions
   
36.079   Travel away from the village
   
36.080   Travel expense reimbursement
   
36.081   Compensation upon termination
Performance Evaluations and Training
   
36.095   Performance evaluations
   
36.096   Training policy
Benefits
   
36.110   Retirement benefits
   
36.111   Disability benefits
   
36.112   Health insurance
   
36.113   Reimbursement allowances
   
36.114   Unemployment compensation
   
36.115   Types of leaves
   
36.116   Vacation
   
36.117   Injury leave
   
36.118   Sick leave
   
36.119   Leave without pay
   
36.120   Jury and witness leave
   
36.121   Administrative leave
   
36.122   Military leave
   
36.123   Bereavement leave; funeral leave
   
36.124   Family leave
   
36.125   Parental leave
   
36.126   Holidays
   
36.127   Religious or ethnic holidays
Employee Responsibilities and Conduct
   
36.140   General policy
   
36.141   Outside employment and conflicts of interest
   
36.142   Political activities
   
36.143   No smoking policy
   
36.144   Use of village equipment
   
36.145   Bulletin boards
   
36.146   Contact with news media
   
36.147   Seat belt policy
   
36.148   Driver’s license requirements
   
36.149   Safety
   
36.150   Drug-free workplace
   
36.151   Grievance procedures
   
36.152   Internet use
   
36.153   Substance abuse
Discipline and Terminations
   
36.165   Discipline
   
36.166   Termination
   
36.167   Pre-termination hearing
   
36.168   Layoff
   
36.169   Death
Job Descriptions
   
36.180   Job description summaries adopted by reference
Employee Evaluations
   
36.195   Evaluation forms adopted by reference
   
Appendix A: Statement of Understanding and Receipt of Personnel Policy
INTRODUCTION
§ 36.001 PURPOSE AND INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this manual and the policies contained herein to
establish and maintain a uniform and equitable system of personnel
administration for employees of the village. The adoption of this manual is
meant to ensure that employment with the village shall be on the basis of
qualifications and that employees will benefit from a work environment which
will encourage them to render their best service.
   (B)   The personnel policies within cover all full-time and part-time
employees.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.002 DISCLAIMER.
   Unless you are given a written contract signed by the Village Clerk
specifying an employment term, your employment is “at will.” This means that
both the village and the employee have the right to terminate employment at any
time or without cause. Nothing in this personnel handbook, nor any oral or
written representation by any employee or official of the village, shall be
construed as a contract of employment.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
GENERAL
§ 36.015 GENERAL PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   This manual is a general informational guide to the village’s current
employment policies and shall not be construed as a contract, implied or
otherwise. The village reserves the right to amend, delete, supplement or
rescind any of the provisions of this manual, as the village deems necessary
and appropriate, without advance notice. These policies shall not be construed
to create contractual rights or any type of promise or guarantee of specific
treatment upon which any employee may rely. The village also reserves the right
to deviate from these policies in emergency situations in order to achieve its
primary mission of providing orderly and cost-efficient services to its
citizens.
   (B)   These personnel policies shall apply to all village employees. They
shall not apply to elected officials and independent contractors. In the event
of conflict between any provision of this manual and any provision of a valid
and effective collective bargaining contract or in cases where the application
of these policies would conflict with applicable civil services rules and
regulations, the provisions of the labor contract and/or the civil service
rules shall govern. In all other cases, these policies shall govern.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.016 NATURE OF THE EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP.
   Employment with the village is voluntary on the part of both parties. Either
the employee or the village may terminate the employment relationship at any
time, with or without cause, as either party may deem appropriate.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.017 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (A)   The village is an equal employment opportunity employer. The village
employs, retains, promotes, terminates and otherwise treats all employees and
job applicants on the basis of merit, qualifications and competence. This
policy shall be applied without regard to any individual’s sex, race, color,
religion, national origin, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation,
gender identity, pregnancy or any other prohibited basis of discrimination
under applicable local, state and federal law.
   (B)   The village will make reasonable accommodations of the disabilities
and bona fide religious beliefs of job applicants and village employees to the
extent required by law unless undue hardship to the village would result.
   (C)   Every person in this state is entitled to the opportunity for
employment on equal terms with every other person. However, as to employment,
an individual must be qualified to perform the services or work required.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.018 VIOLATION OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS; HATE CRIME.
   An employee who believes he or she is a victim of a hate crime must report
the incident to the Clerk or Village Board immediately. For the purposes of
this policy, HATE CRIME means a criminal offense committed against a person or
a person’s property because of the person’s race, color, religion, ancestry,
national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability, or the person’s
association with a person of a certain race, color, religion, ancestry,
national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.019 HARASSMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to provide a work environment for its
employees that is free from harassment, discrimination and intimidation. The
village will not tolerate any form of harassment. Prompt disciplinary action
will be taken against any employee who commits or participates in any form of
harassment.
   (B)   Harassment is unlawful when it is: based on age, race, color, gender,
religion, national origin, disability, pregnancy, genetic information, gender
identity, sex, sexual orientation or any other characteristics that are
protected by law; unwelcome; severe or pervasive in nature; and made a
condition of employment, unreasonably interferes with an employee’s work
performance or creates an offensive, intimidating, degrading or hostile work
environment.
   (C)   Any employee who believes he or she is being harassed by co-workers
should immediately notify the Clerk or a member of the Village Board. In the
event that the harassment involves the Village Clerk, the employee should
notify the Village Board or Chairperson. The village will not retaliate against
an employee who complains of harassment.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this manual, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. An employee who has responsibility for directing one or
more departments.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. An employee’s IMMEDIATE FAMILY includes the employee’s
spouse, child, parent, brother or sister, all grandparents, mother or father
and son or daughter-in-law. Stepchildren residing with an employee are defined
as IMMEDIATE FAMILY.
   REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE. An employee who has completed the probationary
period and who regularly works a minimum of 40 hours a week or 160 hours a
month on a continuing basis.
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES. Those employees who hold jobs of limited duration
arising out of special projects, seasonal workloads or emergencies and who work
less than six months. TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES are not eligible for village
benefits.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.021 EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   (A)   A personnel file for each employee is kept in the Village Clerk’s
office, and access is limited to the Village Clerk and Village Board. All
employee personnel files contain the employee’s name, title and/or position
held, job description, department to which the employee is assigned, salary,
changes in employment status, training received, performance evaluations,
personnel actions effecting the employee, including discipline, and other
pertinent information.
   (B)   (1)   Because of Social Security, payroll, insurance, income tax and
other requirements, it is particularly important that employees keep the
Village Clerk informed about any changes in the following:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Address;
         (c)   Telephone number;
         (d)   Marital status;
         (e)   Number of dependents;
         (f)   Insurance beneficiary;
         (g)   Person to contact in the event of an emergency;
         (h)   United States employment eligibility or authorization; and
         (i)   Date on which a dependent marries or reaches the age of
majority.
      (2)   Employees are required to promptly report all changes that occur in
any of this information at the earliest possible time.
   (C)   An employee has the right to review his or her file. An employee may
request removal of what the employee believes to be irrelevant or erroneous
information in his or her personnel file. If the village denies the employee’s
request to remove the information, the employee may file a written rebuttal
statement to be placed in his or her file.
   (D)   Personnel files are kept confidential to the maximum extent permitted
by law. Except for routine verifications of employment, no information from an
employee’s personnel file will be release to the public, including the press,
without written consent from the employee for specific information.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.022 REFERENCES.
   The village does not give references, other than to confirm the dates of
employment and last salary, without the express written consent of the
employee.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.023 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   The village wants to ensure that aspects of its operation are kept
confidential to the greatest extent possible. Employees may become aware of
confidential village and citizen information during their employment. The types
of information and records the village considers confidential include, but are
not limited to, such things as information concerning personnel, citizen
financial information and legal issues.
   (B)   In addition, employees are prohibited from engaging in gossip based on
information not available to the general public that may give rise to village
liability.
   (C)   Please remember that the need for confidentiality does not end when
the employer/employee relationship has been discontinued. During employment, a
breach of such confidentiality will result in disciplinary action and may
result in immediate termination. After the employee’s termination, a breach of
the confidentiality requirements may result in legal action.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
HOURS AND ATTENDANCE
§ 36.035 WORKING HOURS.
   (A)   A normal working schedule for regular, full-time employees consists of
at least 40 hours each work week. Different work schedules may be established
by the village to meet job assignments and provide necessary village services.
Employees will be advised regarding their specific work hours.
   (B)   Part-time and temporary employees will work hours as specified.
   (C)   The daily work schedule, including starting time and quitting time,
shall be set by the employee’s supervisor.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.036 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.
   (A)   All village positions are designated as either “exempt” or “non-
exempt” according to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) regulations.
   (B)   For most village employees, the established work period is 40 hours
within a seven-day work week. The work week begins at 12:01 a.m. Monday and
ends at 12:00 p.m. Sunday. All employees who work at least 40 hours are full-
time employees.
   (C)   Non-exempt employees are entitled to additional compensation, either
in cash or compensatory time off, when they work more than the maximum numbers
of hours during a work period.
   (D)   All overtime must be authorized by the Utility Superintendent or
Village Board.
   (E)   Overtime pay is calculated at one and one-half times the employee’s
regular rate of pay for all time worked beyond the established work period.
   (F)   When computing overtime pay, any holiday, sick leave and vacation time
are not counted as hours worked. Only those hours actually worked shall be used
to compute overtime.
   (G)   Exempt employees are not covered by the FLSA overtime provisions and
do not receive either overtime pay or compensatory time in lieu of overtime
pay.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.037 WORK SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Maintenance employees: 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. A non-paid 60-minute
lunch break will be normally taken from 12:00 p.m. (noon) to 1:00 p.m.
   (B)   Office employees: 8:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. A non-paid 60-minute lunch
break will be normally taken from 12:00 p.m. (noon) to 1:00 p.m. unless
circumstances dictate it be taken earlier or later.
   (C)   The employees will be reimbursed for hours worked in excess of their
regular workweek at the rate of one and one-half times their normal hourly rate
of pay for all hours worked in excess of the regular work week.
   (D)   If an eligible employee is required to work on any established
holiday, which may or may not be a part of the regular work week, the employee
shall be compensated for the hours worked at the overtime rate as outlined in
division (C) above. Said overtime compensation shall be in addition to the
normal holiday pay received by the employee.
   (E)   (1)   Emergency work time spent by an employee above the normal 40
hours shall be compensated with compensatory time during the next 80 hours of
work period. If not taken as compensatory time, the employee shall be paid for
such time at one and one-half times his or her normal pay rate.
      (2)   Snow removal and all utilities emergencies shall constitute most of
these instances.
   (F)   (1)   Non-exempt employees entitled to overtime pay may elect to
receive compensatory time off instead of a cash payment. The Village Board
approves this on a case-by-case basis. If the compensatory time option is
exercised, the employee is credited with one and one-half times the hours
worked in excess of 40 hours as compensatory time. Maximum accruals of
compensatory time shall be limited to 40 hours for regular employees. After
maximum accrual, overtime compensation shall be paid.
      (2)   Employees may use compensatory time within a reasonable time period
after making a request to the Village Clerk unless doing so would unduly
disrupt village operations. Compensatory time should be used for short-term
absences from work during times mutually agreed to by the employee and the
immediate supervisor or Village Board. The accumulation of compensatory time to
be used as a substitute for extended vacation time off is not normally
permitted.
      (3)   If any employee is unable to use accrued compensatory time within a
reasonable period, not more than 90 days, the employee will be paid his or her
original overtime wage at the end of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.038 ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   Punctual and consistent attendance is a condition of employment.
   (B)   Employees unable to work or unable to report to work on time should
notify their immediate supervisor as soon as possible, ordinarily before the
work day beings or within 30 minutes of the employee’s usual starting time. If
an absence continues beyond one day, the employee is responsible for reporting
in each day. The employee may leave a message stating the reason for being late
or unable to report for work.
   (C)   Employees are expected to be at work during inclement weather. The
Utility Superintendent and/or Village Board may allow employees to be late or
leave early during severe weather conditions; however, non-attendance will be
counted as absence from work and will be charged to accrued vacation time or
accumulated compensatory time.
   (D)   An employee who is absent without authorization or notification is
subject to disciplinary action, including possible termination.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.039 BREAKS AND MEAL PERIODS.
   The workday shall include two paid 15-minute breaks for every eight hours
worked. All breaks shall be arranged so that they do not interfere with village
business or service to the public. Meal periods are unpaid.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.040 CALL BACK.
   All employees are subject to call back emergencies and are needed by the
village to provide necessary services to the public. A refusal to respond to a
call back is grounds for immediate disciplinary action, including possible
termination. Employees on call back will be paid their appropriate rate of pay
for hours worked, or overtime rate/compensatory time rate, if applicable.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.041 WEEKEND DUTIES.
   Employees are scheduled for rotating weekend duties, including weather
reporting, recording water and wastewater usage and responding to emergency
calls involving village services. During the summer, weekend duties also
include checking village park restrooms, shelter houses and other duties as may
be assigned.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.042 PAYROLL RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk keeps the official payroll records. Each employee shall
turn in on a regular basis a signed work record noting hours worked, leave
taken and overtime worked during the previous pay period.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
RECRUITING AND HIRING
§ 36.055 RECRUITING.
   (A)   Recruiting practices are conducted solely on the basis of ability,
merit, qualifications and competence, without regard to any status protected by
law.
   (B)   Each applicant shall complete and sign an application form prior to
being considered as a finalist for any position. Resumes may supplement, but
not replace, the village’s official application form. Applicants chosen for
consideration as finalists on the basis of their resumes or other information
shall complete a standard application form prior to being considered as a
finalist for any position.
   (C)   Any applicant supplying false or misleading information is subject to
immediate termination, if hired.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.056 HIRING.
   (A)   When a position becomes vacant and prior to any posting or
advertisement of the vacancy, the department head shall review the position,
its job description and the need for such a position and shall submit
information to the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk will prepare and submit a
written request to fill the position to the Village Board. The position will be
posted and/or advertised only after the Village Board has approved the request.
   (B)   Residency within the village shall not be a condition of initial
appointment. Residency in the village shall be required within 30 days of
hiring for all regular full-time employees who are subject to call back unless
extended or waived by the Village Board. In the event the Board authorizes a
full-time employee who is subject to call back to live outside of the village
limits, said employee shall reside within 15 miles of the municipality.
   (C)   Applicants for positions in which the applicant is expected to operate
a motor vehicle must be at least 18 years old and will be required to present a
valid state driver’s license with any necessary endorsements. Driving records
of applicants may be checked. Applicants with poor driving records, as
determined by the village, may be disqualified for employment with the village
in positions requiring driving.
   (D)   An applicant’s hiring as a municipal employee is contingent on that
applicant passing a medical examination by a licensed physician. The purpose of
the examination is to determine if the individual is physically able to perform
the job and to ensure his or her physical condition will not endanger the
health, safety or well-being of other employees or the public. The physician
shall make a report as to the applicant’s suitability for employment in the
position to be filled. Such medical examination reports and subsequent reports
made during the person’s term of employment shall be kept in a permanent file
for each employee. The offer of employment may be conditioned on the results of
the examination. The village shall reimburse the applicant up to $100 for the
cost of the physical examination.
   (E)   A candidate may be disqualified from consideration if: found
physically unable to perform the duties of the position (and the individual’s
condition cannot reasonably be accommodated in the workplace); the candidate
refuses to submit to a medical examination or complete medical history forms;
or if the exam reveals the use of alcohol and/or controlled substances.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.057 TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   With the approval of the Village Board, temporary employees may be
used during emergencies or other peak workload periods to temporarily assist
regular employees, or absent employees due to disability, illness, vacation or
other approved leave, or to temporarily fill a vacancy until a regular employee
is hired.
   (B)   Temporary employees may be hired without competitive recruitment or
examination.
   (C)   Temporary employees may not work more than 160 hours a month for more
than five months in a 12-month period.
   (D)   Temporary employees are eligible for overtime pay as required by law.
Temporary employees are not eligible and do not receive retirement, vacation,
sick leave, health insurance, holiday or any other benefits during their
employment.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.058 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   All newly hired employees or former employees who have been rehired or
employees promoted enter a probationary period, which is considered an integral
part of the selection and evaluation process.
   (B)   During the probationary period, an employee is required to demonstrate
suitability for the position through actual work performance.
   (C)   The normal probationary period for village service employees is three
months from the employee’s date of hire, rehire or promotion; however, longer
periods may be established for positions requiring technical, professional
specialized, unusual or unique skills or qualifications.
   (D)   An employee’s probationary period may be extended for up to an
additional six months (when needed due to circumstances such as extended
illness or a need to continue to evaluate marginal performance) to properly
evaluate the employee’s performance. The probationary period will not be
shortened for any reason.
   (E)   During the probationary period, the employee may be terminated at any
time with or without cause.
   (F)   When a department head determines an employee has satisfactorily
completed the probationary period, the Village Clerk shall prepare a written
performance evaluation. The Village Board and department head shall perform and
review the employee’s evaluation. If the probationary period is satisfactorily
completed, the employee may be certified to regular employment status.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.059 EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES (NEPOTISM).
   (A)   Employee’s relatives will not be employed by the village under any of
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where one of the parties would have authority (or practical power)
to supervise, appoint, remove or discipline the other, except in emergency
situations or with Board approval;
      (2)   Where one party would be responsible for auditing the work of the
other;
      (3)   Where both parties would report to the same immediate supervisor;
      (4)   Where other circumstances might lead to potential conflict among
the parties or conflict between the interest of one or both parties and the
best interest of the village; or
      (5)   Where one of the parties is a policy level official of the village.
   (B)   RELATIVES includes an employee’s parents, spouse’s parents, spouse,
children, brothers-in-law, sisters-in-law and step relationships, or any other
person related by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree to the
person elected, appointed or making said appointment.
   (C)   The employment of relatives is prohibited unless such appointment
shall first be approved by the Village Board following proper advertising of
the vacancy. It is the policy of the village to hire the most qualified
applicant for the job.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.060 PROMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS.
   (A)   The village encourages current village employees to apply for vacant
village positions for which they are qualified. Promotions and transfers are
based on the department head recommendations, work force requirements,
performance evaluations, job descriptions and related village requirements.
   (B)   Regular employees are eligible for promotions, transfers or voluntary
demotion. To be considered for another position, an employee must have
satisfactorily completed the probationary period and posses the qualifications
for the vacant position unless such requirements are waived by the Village
Board in the best interests of the village.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
COMPENSATION
§ 36.075 SALARY CLASSIFICATION AND GRADES.
   Each job title within the village is classified into one of the village’s
classifications for salary purposes based on job qualifications, level of
responsibility, difficulty, working conditions, skill, hazards and amount of
supervision required for the specific job title.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.076 EMPLOYEE PAY RATES.
   Pay increases are contingent on satisfactory performance and job
evaluations. If any employee’s performance is consistently unsatisfactory, the
Village Board may defer a scheduled pay increase for a stipulated period of
time or until the employee’s job performance is satisfactory.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.077 PAYDAYS.
   Employees are paid on a bi-weekly basis on the first Friday following the
end of a two-week work period. When the payday falls on a holiday, payment
shall be made on the day before the holiday.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.078 DEDUCTIONS.
   The law requires some regular deductions from the employee’s earnings. The
employee specifically authorizes other deductions. The village will withhold
from the employee’s paycheck those deductions required by law and any voluntary
deductions authorized by the employee.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.079 TRAVEL AWAY FROM THE VILLAGE.
   All travel away from the village must be approved in advance, if possible,
by the Village Board or department head. The village acknowledges this will not
always be possible. If private automobiles are used, the employee’s mileage
will be reimbursed at the IRS standard mileage rate.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.080 TRAVEL EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Village employees will be reimbursed for reasonable and customary
expenses actually incurred in connection with the business of the village,
including food, lodging and travel expenses while away, but excluding any
expenses for alcoholic beverages. Meal reimbursement shall not exceed $35 per
day when overnight lodging is required unless provided by conference
registration. All meals on a day conference shall be reimbursed and not exceed
$35 per day. The village credit card should not be utilized for meals.
Employees should pay for their own meals and then seek reimbursement from the
village.
   (B)   Requests for reimbursement, including receipts, shall be submitted on
an expense report form signed by the employee.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.081 COMPENSATION UPON TERMINATION.
   (A)   Compensation. When an employee’s employment with the village is
terminated, the employee will receive the following compensation:
      (1)   Regular wages for all hours worked up to the time of termination
which have not already been paid;
      (2)   Any accrued but previously unpaid overtime and accrued but unused
vacation pay; and
      (3)   Termination pay.
         (a)   Regular employees who voluntarily resign shall give two weeks’
notice and salaried positions will give one month’s notice. Any employee who
complies with this requirement shall be given pay to the date of separation
plus earned vacation to that date.
         (b)   Regular employees terminated by the Village Board due to cause
other than malfeasance or misfeasance shall be given 30 days’ notice, paid to
the date of separation, plus earned vacation to that date.
   (B)   Removal.
      (1)   The Board shall have the power to dismiss an employee. Removal from
his or her position shall be made only where the good of the village’s services
requires that it be done. Said causes shall be substantial and important and
relate directly to the disqualification of the person or to his or her failure
in the performance of his or her duties so that he or she has become an
unsatisfactory person to hold the position.
      (2)   Grounds for removal shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction of a felony or
any job-related crime or crimes involving fraud, moral turpitude or dishonesty;
         (b)   Working under the influence of drugs or alcoholic beverages,
which interferes with expected job performance;
         (c)   Failure to report for duty upon termination of suspension or
leave of absence and malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in the performance
of duty; or
         (d)   Insubordination, neglect of duty or incompetence, violation of
village policies and disrespectful behavior, or any other behavior the village
deems inconsistent with the village’s best interests.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS AND TRAINING
§ 36.095 PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.
   (A)   To achieve the village’s goal to train, promote and retain the best-
qualified employee for every job, the village may conduct periodic performance
evaluations for all positions.
   (B)   The Village Clerk and Board are responsible for developing and
maintaining the village’s performance evaluation program.
   (C)   Employees are to be evaluated by the department head and/or Village
Board prior to completion of their probationary period and at least once every
12 months thereafter.
   (D)   The evaluation is part of an employee’s personnel record and may be a
factor in determining the employee’s conversion to regular status, or whether
the employee receives a wage increase or is to be promoted, transferred,
demoted, laid off or terminated.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.096 TRAINING POLICY.
   The village seeks, within the limits of available resources, to offer
training to increase an employee’s skills, knowledge and abilities directly
related to village employment, to obtain or maintain required licenses and
certifications and to develop staff resources. Opportunities may include, but
are not limited to, on-the-job training, in-house workshops and seminars
sponsored by other agencies or organizations.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
BENEFITS
§ 36.110 RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   (A)   The village makes contributions on behalf of all eligible employees to
the Social Security System in addition to those contributions made by the
employee through FICA payroll deductions.
   (B)   There shall not be a mandatory age for retirement.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.111 DISABILITY BENEFITS.
   (A)   All employees are covered by the State Industrial Probationary
Insurance Program (worker’s compensation). This type of insurance covers
employees in case of on-the-job injuries or job-related illnesses. For
qualifying cases, State Industrial Probationary Insurance will pay the employee
for workdays lost for any disability resulting from job-related injuries or
illnesses. All job-related accidents should be reported immediately to the
supervisor.
   (B)   An eligible employee who is unable to work due to a work-related
injury may receive worker’s compensation benefits in an amount determined by
the applicable laws in effect at the time of the incident.
   (C)   The village may require an examination, at its expense, performed by a
physician of its choice, to determine when the employee can return to work and
if the employee will be capable of performing the duties and responsibilities
of the position.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.112 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   Generally. The village will pay the premium for each eligible regular
full-time employee’s health insurance coverage with a health and major medical
group insurance program chosen by the Village Board. The village will pay 50%,
with an additional 20% taken off the 50% total for each eligible regular full-
time employee’s health insurance coverage for a spouse’s, child’s or family
coverage with a health and major medical group insurance program chosen by the
Village Board. The employee and covered spouse, children or family must pay the
first $750 toward the applicable health insurance deductible. The village will
contribute the next $1,000 toward the applicable health insurance deductible,
and the employee and covered family members will then be responsible for the
remainder of the deductible as well as any co-pays or uncovered expenses.
   (B)   Terms and conditions. The insurance program referred to in this manual
will be subject to all the terms and conditions of the contract of insurance
provided by the insurance carrier and entered into with the village. The
programs and criteria for eligibility will be explained at the time of
employment and will go into effect after employees become eligible to join. The
Village Board reserves the right to make changes in the carriers and provisions
of these programs when deemed necessary or advisable. All benefit plans are
subject to change from time to time.
   (C)   Eligibility. All full-time employees only will be eligible to apply
for said Health and Major Medical Group Insurance Program. Temporary and
regular part-time employees do not qualify and will not be provided with health
insurance.
   (D)   Continued coverage provision.
      (1)   Ninety calendar days after an employee has been approved for
coverage after the village’s Health and Major Medical Group Insurance Program,
the provisions in division (D)(2) below will apply.
      (2)   An employee who has been approved by the Village Board for a leave
of absence, with or without pay as aforesaid, may, from said date of approval,
continue the employee’s Health and Major Medical Group Insurance Program for a
period of 90 calendar days. The employee must make application in writing, and
approval will be in the discretion of the Village Board and the insurance
carrier. The approval of the insurance carrier shall be solely obtained by the
employee, and at the employee’s sole expense.
   (E)   COBRA. If any employee terminates regular active work from the village
for any reason, coverage of benefits under the Health and Major Medical Group
Insurance Program must be offered as a CORBA plan, with identical benefits to
the employee and dependents at the time of termination.
      (1)   If any employee elects to take COBRA, an application is required
within 60 days of the qualifying event. The effective date for COBRA coverage
may be assigned retroactively by the employee or beneficiary.
      (2)   Each qualified beneficiary has the right to elect coverage, so the
spouse and/or dependents may elect coverage on their own even if the employee
does not.
      (3)   Said coverage shall remain in force for 18 months, or a beneficiary
becomes disabled during the first 60 days of COBRA coverage, the period must be
extended to 29 months, or if the beneficiary cancels coverage.
      (4)   Coverage shall also cease for any of the following reasons.
         (a)   The qualified beneficiary fails to make timely payments of
premiums to the employer.
         (b)   The village ceases to provide any group health plan for all
employees.
         (c)   The qualified beneficiary becomes covered under another group
health plan as an employee or dependent (unless that plan has a preexisting
condition clause) or the beneficiary becomes entitled to benefits under
Medicare.
         (d)   Continuation rights are not available if an employee is
terminated for “gross misconduct.”
         (e)   An administrative handling fee over and above the cost of the
insurance premium may be charged to employees or their dependents who elect to
exercise their COBRA continuation rights.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.113 REIMBURSEMENT ALLOWANCES.
   Village regular employees shall be eligible for reimbursement for such
additional expenses required by their employment in the form of allowances for
the use of a private automobile on village business as the Board shall by
resolution provide, in addition to the amount set forth on a step-pay rate, and
such allowances and contributions shall be considered in setting the proper
levels of pay for similar work.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.114 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
   Village employees may qualify for state unemployment compensation after
termination from village employment depending on the reason for termination and
if certain qualifications are met.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.115 TYPES OF LEAVES.
   (A)   Vacation leave;
   (B)   Injury leave;
   (C)   Sick leave;
   (D)   Leave without pay;
   (E)   Jury and witness leave;
   (F)   Administrative leave;
   (G)   Military leave;
   (H)   Bereavement leave/funeral leave;
   (I)   Family leave; and
   (J)   Parental leave.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.116 VACATION.
   (A)   (1)   Vacation leave is earned on an annual basis. Each regular full-
time employee is entitled to vacation leave as follows: regular full-time
employees shall be granted leaves of absence with full pay for vacation
periods. Employees must have one full year of continuous employment to be
eligible for vacation time. Then vacation time will run on a calendar year
basis. Vacation time is paid at eight hours per day.
      (2)   All regular full-time employees shall be granted and accrue
vacation periods in accordance with the following schedules.
 
Years of Continuous Service    Accrual Days
1 year of employment           5 working days
2 years of employment          10 working days
10 years of employment         15 working days
20 years or more of employment 20 working days
 
      (3)   All vacation time must be reported to the department head with
three days’ advance notice. Each employee is responsible for scheduling
vacations without undue disruption of village operations.
   (B)   When an employee terminates or is terminated by the village, all
accrued vacation shall be paid and included in the final paycheck. Computation
of such vacation pay shall be based on the employee’s regular rate of pay at
the time of termination.
   (C)   All new employees must satisfactorily complete their probationary
period to be entitled to use vacation leave. Temporary and part-time employees
are not eligible for any vacation benefits.
   (D)   In cases when village operations have made it impractical for an
employee to use vacation time within the year it accrues, the department head,
with the approval of the Board, may authorize accrual of vacation hours for an
employee up to 80 hours. This will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Any
unused vacation time at the end of the calendar year not authorized by the
supervisor and Board to be carried forward into a new year will be paid to the
employee in the form of regular hourly pay.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.117 INJURY LEAVE.
    Leave due to injury while on duty will be granted for the time worker’s
compensation is paid and for the period preceding the commencement of said
compensation.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.118 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon completion of a trial period of 90 days, eligible regular
full-time employees of the village shall be granted leave of absence from
duties on account of sickness with ten sick days per calendar year. Sick pay
benefits may be accumulated by employees up to a maximum of 20 days. All sick
leave expires on the date of separation. Sick leave shall not be used as
vacation leave. Sick pay will be paid only for approved absences and for the
time when the employee would normally be scheduled to work. Sick leave does not
count as hours worked for the purposes of calculating overtime.
      (2)   Sick leave shall be granted by the department head or Village
Board. Sick leave may be used for personal illness or that of another immediate
family member requiring the absence of the employee for the care of the
individual. IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS includes spouses, children, stepchildren,
foster children, parents, stepparents, mothers-in-law and fathers-in-law. Sick
leave may also be used for personal injury disabling the employee to an extent
that prevents the performance of assigned duties and or medical appointments.
      (3)   A doctor’s certificate may be required when an employee is absent
for a period in excess of three days. The village may also request the opinion
of a second doctor, at the village’s expense, to determine whether the employee
suffers from a chronic physical or mental condition which impairs his or her
ability to perform the job. Employees who are habitually absent due to illness
or disability may be terminated if their disability cannot be reasonably
accommodated and/or when the employee’s absenteeism prevents the orderly and
efficient provision of service to the citizens of the village.
      (4)   Medical or dental appointments for the employee or dependent child,
provided that the employee must make a reasonable effort to schedule such
appointments at times which have the least interference with the work day.
      (5)   Exposure to a contagious disease where on-the-job presence of the
employee would jeopardize the health of others.
      (6)   Use of a prescription drug which impairs job performance or safety.
      (7)   Actual periods of temporary disability associated with pregnancy or
childbirth. Employees may request additional time off beyond the actual period
of disability; vacation leave, compensatory time or leave without pay may be
used.
      (8)   Employees who use all their accumulated sick leave and require more
time off work due to illness or injury may, with the Village Board’s prior
approval, take leave without pay.
   (B)   The abuse of sick leave privileges may be grounds for dismissal.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.119 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   (A)   The Village Board may grant leaves of absence without pay for absence
from work not covered by any other type of leave or if other leave balances are
exhausted. Examples of situations for which leave without pay may be granted
included time off work for personal reasons, such as prolonged illness,
parenting, caring for an ill relative, pursuing an education or fulfilling a
military obligation in excess of 15 days per year.
   (B)   Only regular full-time and part-time employees who have satisfactorily
completed their probationary period are eligible for leave without pay. The
following requirements apply.
      (1)   Leave may be granted to an employee for a period of up to 30 days
upon the approval of the Village Board. Further extensions are at the
discretion of the Village Board.
      (2)   Accrued compensatory time, if any, and vacation leave must be
exhausted prior to taking any leave without pay.
      (3)   An employee’s benefits are suspended during the period of unpaid
leave until the employee returns to work. Vacation, sick leave and/or any other
benefits do not accrue while an employee is on leave without pay.
      (4)   In certain circumstances, self-payment of benefits may apply.
      (5)   An employee who fails to report promptly at the end of the unpaid
leave is presumed to have resigned. An employee returning from a temporary
disability may, at the village’s option, return to the same position or similar
position at a comparable rate of pay.
      (6)   Unless specified elsewhere in this manual or expressly stated in
writing and signed by the Village Board, while on authorized leave of absence
without pay, the employee will not accrue vacation or sick leave benefits. An
employee will be returned to the same or a comparable position after the leave
based upon the needs of the village, the length of the leave and prior
performance of the employee.
      (7)   Prior to returning from a leave for medical incapacity, an employee
may be required to submit a medical report certifying that the employee is able
to resume regular job responsibilities.
      (8)   An employee’s employment with another employer while on a leave of
absence will automatically constitute a voluntary resignation.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.120 JURY AND WITNESS LEAVE.
   (A)   Employees may be granted time off with pay to serve on a jury or as a
court witness. If any employee is summoned during a critical work period, the
village may ask the employee to request a waiver from duty.
   (B)   An employee granted such leave who is paid by the village shall
reimburse the village for any pay received from the Court while serving as a
juror or witness.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.121 ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
   On a case-by-case basis, the village may place an employee on administrative
leave with pay for an indefinite period of time, as determined by the Village
Board to be in the best interests of the village during a pending investigation
or other administrative proceeding.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.122 MILITARY LEAVE.
   Leaves of absence for training in the National Guard or service in the armed
services shall be granted in accordance with federal law, state statutes and
subsidiary rules approved by the Board.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.123 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE; FUNERAL LEAVE.
   Funeral leave is available to village employees for bereavement and funerals
of immediate family. Funeral paid leave of up to five days per funeral
includes: spouse’s parents, parents, spouse, and children. Funeral paid leave
up to three days includes: brothers and sisters, brother and sister in-laws,
grandparents, grandchildren, aunts, and uncles. Total funeral leaves shall be
limited to eight days annually. Additional days are available without pay with
Board approval.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.124 FAMILY LEAVE.
   (A)   Leave provided. The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA), as
amended thereafter, requires covered employers to provide FMLA leave to
eligible employees. Following is a summary of the leave requirements under the
FMLA. This policy and the posting do not necessarily include all FMLA
requirements, disclosures, or information employees may need to know, but are
intended to provide employees with basic FMLA information.
   (B)   Eligibility requirements. In order to be eligible for FMLA leave, an
employee must have worked for the village for at least one year prior to
commencement of the leave and worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12 months
prior to the commencement of the leave.
   (C)   Reasons for leave. Eligible employees may take FMLA leave for the
following purposes:
      (1)   For incapacity due to the employee’s pregnancy, prenatal medical
care or childbirth;
      (2)   To care for the employee’s child after birth, or placement for
adoption or foster care;
      (3)   To care for the employee’s spouse, child or parent who has a
serious health condition;
      (4)   For a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to
perform his or her job;
      (5)   For military exigency leave to address certain qualifying
exigencies related to a military member (if the employee is the spouse, parent,
son or daughter of said military member) who is on covered active duty or
called to covered active duty status in a foreign country (and if the family
member is in the National Guard, Reserves or regular armed forces); or
      (6)   For military caregiver leave to care for a covered service member
(if the employee is the spouse, parent, son, daughter or next of kin of said
service member). A covered service member is: a current member of the armed
forces, including a member of the National Guard or Reserves, who is undergoing
medical treatment, recuperation or therapy, is otherwise in outpatient status
or is otherwise on the temporary disability retired list for a serious injury
or illness; or a veteran who was discharged or released under conditions other
than dishonorable at any time during the five-year period prior to the first
date the eligible employee takes FMLA leave to care for the covered veteran,
and who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation or therapy for a serious
injury or illness.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      QUALIFYING EXIGENCY. May include attending certain military events,
arranging for alternative childcare, addressing certain financial and legal
arrangements, attending certain counseling sessions and attending post-
deployment reintegration briefings, among other things.
      SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION. An illness, injury, impairment, or physical or
mental condition that involves either an overnight stay in medical care
facility, or continuing treatment by a health care provider for a condition
that either prevents the employee from performing the functions of the
employee’s job, or prevents the qualified family member from participating in
school or other daily activities. Subject to certain conditions, the continuing
treatment requirement may be met by a period of incapacity of more than three
full consecutive calendar days combined with at least two in-person visits to a
health care provider (the first within seven days and the second within 30 days
of the on-set of incapacity) or one in-person visit (within seven days of the
onset of incapacity) and regimen of continuing treatment prescribed at that
visit, or incapacity due to pregnancy, or incapacity due to a chronic
condition. Other conditions may meet the definition of continuing treatment.
   (E)   Amount of leave. Eligible employees are entitled to a maximum of 12
weeks of unpaid FMLA leave during a rolling 12-month period. If the leave is to
care for a covered service member, an eligible employee is entitled to a
maximum of 26 weeks of unpaid leave for such purpose during a single 12-month
period. During that single 12-month period, FMLA leave taken for other reasons
is also counted, and an employee may not exceed the 26-week maximum for all
FMLA leave taken regardless of the reason.
   (F)   Use of leave. An employee does not need to use FMLA leave in one
block. Leave can be taken intermittently or on a reduced leave schedule when
medically necessary. Employees must make reasonable efforts to schedule leave
for planned medical treatment so as not to unduly disrupt the village’s
operations. Leave due to qualifying exigencies may also be taken on an
intermittent basis.
   (G)   Substitution of paid time off benefits for unpaid leave. Employees are
required to use paid time off (PTO) benefits while on FMLA leave. PTO benefits
will not continue to accrue while an employee is on FMLA leave, but accruals
will be re-commenced upon return to work from FMLA leave.
   (H)   Employee notice of need for leave. 
      (1)   If the need for leave is foreseeable, an employee must provide 30
days’ advanced notice if practicable. If not practicable to give at least 30
days advance notice of the need for foreseeable leave, then the employee must
give as much notice as reasonably possible. This normally means providing
notice on the same day as or next business day after the employee learns of the
need for leave. Notice of the need for foreseeable leave is to be given to the
Village Clerk.
      (2)   If the need for leave is unforeseeable, an employee must provide as
much notice as practicable. This means the employee must comply with the
village’s call-in procedures. In addition, the employee must notify the Village
Clerk of absences that are unforeseeable.
      (3)   When notifying the village of the need for FMLA leave or an FMLA
absence, an employee must provide sufficient information for the village to
determine if the leave might qualify as FMLA leave or an FMLA absence. The
employee must also provide the anticipated timing and duration of the leave or
absence. Sufficient information may include that the employee is unable to
perform job functions, the family member is unable to perform daily activities,
the need for hospitalization or continuing treatment by a health care provider,
or circumstances supporting the need for military family leave. Calling in
“ill” or “sick” is not enough. Employees also must inform the village if the
requested leave is for a reason for which FMLA leave was previously taken or
certified. If so, the employee must specifically mention the “FMLA” or state
the specific qualifying reason FMLA leave or absence is needed.
   (I)   Certification of need for leave. Employees may be required to provide
a certification and periodic recertification supporting the need for leave. Any
certification that is submitted must be complete and sufficient and returned
within 15 calendar days. The village may also require second and third opinions
from health care providers if the leave is for the serious health condition of
the employee or a family member. The village may also request authentication
and clarification of any medical certification that is submitted by contacting
the health care provider.
   (J)   Village notices and other responsibilities.
      (1)   If an employee requests FMLA leave, the Village Clerk will notify
the employee whether he or she is eligible for such leave the first time during
the village’s FMLA leave year that the employee requests leave for that
particular reason or that specific medical condition. If the employee is
eligible, the notice will specify any additional information required (such as
certification of a health care provider), as well as the employee’s rights and
responsibilities. If the employee is not eligible, the notice will provide a
reason for the ineligibility.
      (2)   Once the village has received a complete and sufficient
certification (if one is required), the employee will receive a designation
notice. The notice will either designate the leave as FMLA-protected leave and
the amount of leave counted against the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement (if
it can be calculated), or will advise the employee that the leave is not FMLA-
protected.
   (K)   Benefits and protections while on leave. While on FMLA leave, the
village will maintain the employee’s health coverage under the village’s group
health plan on the same terms as if the employee had continued to work. Use of
FMLA leave cannot result in the loss of any employment benefit that accrued
prior to the state of an employee’s leave.
   (L)   Permissible and prohibited activities while on leave. As a general
rule, an employee who is on an approved leave of absence is expected to engage
in only those activities that are necessary for, consistent with, and
appropriate for the purpose of leave, and the employee is not permitted to
engage in any other activities. An employee is also prohibited from working
elsewhere or engaging in self-employment while on leave (including working any
additional job the employee was working while also working for the village
prior to taking leave), without the village’s advance written consent.
   (M)   Return to work. If an employee was on leave for his or her own serious
health condition, he or she must provide a fitness-for-duty certification upon
return to work. Upon return from FMLA leave, an employee will normally be
restored to his or her original or an equivalent position with equivalent pay,
benefits, and other employment terms. However, an employee has no greater
rights to job restoration than if the employee had not taken FMLA leave.
   (N)   Unlawful acts by employers. FMLA makes it unlawful for any employer to
interfere with, restrain, or deny the exercise of any right provided under
FMLA; and discharge or discriminate against any person for opposing any
practice made unlawful by FMLA or for involvement in any proceeding under or
relating to FMLA.
   (O)   Enforcement. If any employer violates the FMLA, an employee may file a
complaint with the U.S. Department of Labor or may bring a private lawsuit
against an employer. FMLA does not affect any federal or state law prohibiting
discrimination or supersede any state or local law or collective bargaining
agreement which provides greater family or medical leave rights. An employee
may obtain additional information from the U.S. Department of Labor by calling
1-866-4US-WAGE (1-866-487-9243 or TTY: 1-877-889-5627 or at the following
website: www.wagehour.dol/gov.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.125 PARENTAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Parental leave of up to ten paid working days will be granted to an
employee parent to provide care and assistance for their newborn child only if
the employee parent returns to work for the municipality for at least 30 days
after the expiration of all leave utilized for said birth, whether paid or
unpaid. Parental leave shall be used within six months of the birth of the
child. Parental leave will not accrue for an employee parent who does not
satisfy the above conditions.
   (B)   An employee of a newly-adopted child will be granted up to ten paid
working days of adoption leave only if the employee parent returns to work for
the municipality at least 30 days after the expiration of all leave utilized
for said adoption, whether paid or unpaid. Adoption leave begins no sooner than
when the child is placed in the physical custody of the employee and is to be
utilized within six months of placement. Adoption leave does not apply if the
child being adopted is a special needs child over 18 years of age, a child who
is over the age of eight and is not a special needs child, or a step-child
being adopted by his or her step parent. Adoption leave will not accrue for an
employee parent who does not satisfy the above conditions.
(Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.126 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Full-day holidays. The following calendar days of the year shall be
observed as holidays.
New Year’s Day       January 1
Memorial Day           Last Monday in May
Juneteenth             June 19
Independence Day       July 4
Labor Day              First Monday in September
Veteran’s Day        November 11
Thanksgiving Day       Fourth Thursday in November
Day after Thanksgiving Fourth Friday in November
Christmas Day          December 25
1 floating holiday     Per calendar year
 
   (B)   Half-day holidays. The following calendar days of the year shall be
observed as one-half day holidays.
 
Christmas Eve Day  December 24
New Year’s Eve DaDecember 31
 
   (C)   Weekend holidays. In the event any of the above-mentioned holidays
fall on a Saturday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday, and if it
falls on a Sunday, it will be observed on the following Monday.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.127 RELIGIOUS OR ETHNIC HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   An employee who wishes to observe religious or ethnic holidays other
than those which are listed in §
36.126 of this chapter may do so by notifying the Village Board in writing at
least two weeks prior to such holiday. Late notices may be accepted or denied
at the Village Board’s discretion.
   (B)   Employees may use a vacation day or trade such day for another holiday
not of their observance or, alternatively, employees who have not accrued
unused vacation days may be granted unpaid leave.
      (1)   Any holiday falling on Saturday will be celebrated on the preceding
Friday. Any holiday falling on Sunday will be celebrated on the following
Monday.
      (2)   Non-exempt regular full-time employees will be paid for the holiday
plus one and one-half times their regular pay for any time worked on the
holiday.
      (3)   Non-exempt regular part-time employees will not be paid for the
holiday, but will be paid one and one-half times their regular pay for any time
worked on the holiday.
      (4)   Temporary employees will be paid at their regular straight-time for
hours worked on a holiday.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT
§ 36.140 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   The safety and welfare of the village’s citizens shall at all times be
held as a central mission of government. All village employees are expected to
represent the village to the public in a professional manner which is
courteous, efficient and helpful. Employees must maintain a clean and neat
appearance appropriate to their work assignment, as determined by their
position and department head.
   (B)   Since the proper working relationship between employees and the public
depends on each employee’s ongoing job performance, professional conduct and
behavior, the village has established certain minimum standards of personal
conduct. Among the village’s expectation are: basic tact and courtesy towards
the public and fellow employees; adherence to village policies, procedures,
safety rules and safe work practices; compliance with directions from
supervisors; preserving and protecting the village’s equipment, grounds,
facilities and resources; and providing orderly and cost-efficient services to
its citizens.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.141 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Employees shall not, directly or indirectly, engage in any outside
employment or financial interest which may conflict, in the village’s opinion,
with the best interests of the village or interfere with the employee’s ability
to perform the assigned village job. Examples include, but are not limited to,
outside employment which:
      (1)   Prevents the employee from being available for work beyond normal
working hours, such as emergencies or peak work periods, when such availability
is a regular part of the employee’s job;
      (2)   Is conducted during the employee’s work hours;
      (3)   Utilizes village telephones, computers, supplies or any other
resources, facilities or equipment; or
      (4)   May reasonably be perceived by members of the public as a conflict
of interest, or otherwise discredits public service.
   (B)   An employee who chooses to have an additional job, contractual
commitment or self-employment may do so provided the employee obtains prior
permission from the Village Board.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.142 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Village employees may participate in political or partisan
activities of their choosing, provided that village resources and property are
not utilized and the activity does not adversely affect the responsibilities of
the employees in their positions.
      (2)   Employees may not campaign on village time or in a village uniform
or while representing the village in any way. Employees may not allow others to
use village facilities or funds for political activities.
   (B)   Any village employee who meets with or may be observed by the public,
or otherwise represents the village to the public, while performing regular
duties may not wear or display any button, badge or sticker relevant to any
candidate or ballot issue during working hours. Employees shall not solicit a
contribution for a partisan political cause on village property or on village
time.
   (C)   Except as noted in this policy, village employees are otherwise free
to fully exercise their constitutional First Amendment rights.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.143 NO SMOKING POLICY.
   For health and safety considerations, the village prohibits smoking by
employees in all village facilities, including village-owned buildings,
vehicles and offices or other facilities rented or leased by the village,
including individual employee offices.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.144 USE OF VILLAGE EQUIPMENT.
   Use of village equipment, including vehicles, should be used by employees
for village business only. An employee’s misuse of village services,
telephones, vehicles, equipment or supplies can result in disciplinary action,
including termination.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.145 BULLETIN BOARDS.
   Information of special interest to all employees is posted regularly on the
village bulletin boards. Employees may not post any information on these
bulletin boards without the authorization of the department head or Village
Board.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.146 CONTACT WITH NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Chairperson shall be responsible for all official contacts with
the news media during working hours. The Village Board may designate specific
employees to give out procedural, factual or historical information on
particular subjects.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.147 SEAT BELT POLICY.
   Anyone operating or riding in village vehicles is required to wear seat
belts at all times if the village vehicle is equipped with seat belts.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.148 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As part of the requirements for certain specific village positions, an
employee may be required to hold a valid state driver’s license.
   (B)   If any employee’s license is revoked, suspended or lost, or is in any
other way not current, valid and in the employee’s possession, the employee
shall promptly notify the department head and will be immediately suspended
from driving duties. The employee may not resume driving until proof of a
valid, current license is provided to the department head.
   (C)   Depending on the duration of license suspension, revocation or other
inability to drive, an employee may be subject to disciplinary action,
including termination.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.149 SAFETY.
   (A)   Every employee is responsible for maintaining a safe work environment
and following the village’s safety rules. Negligence in adherence to on-the-job
safety standards will be considered grounds for discipline and/or termination.
Each employee shall promptly report all unsafe or potentially hazardous
conditions to the department head. The village will make every effort to remedy
problems as quickly as possible. A safety meeting will be held by village light
plant employees on the first Monday of every month in accordance with state
regulations.
   (B)   In case of an accident involving a personal injury, regardless of how
serious, employees shall immediately first notify the department head, and
subsequently, the Village Board.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.150 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The manufacturing, distribution, dispensation, possession and use of
unlawful drugs or alcohol on village premises or during work hours by village
employees is strictly prohibited. Employees who report for work or are at work
under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs or any controlled substance will
be subject to severe disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
   (B)   Employees must notify the village within five days of any conviction
for a drug violation in the workplace.
   (C)   Violation of this policy can result in disciplinary action, including
termination. Continued poor performance or failure to successfully complete an
assigned rehabilitation program is grounds for termination.
   (D)   Employees who are required to maintain a commercial driver’s license
(CDL) are subject to random drug testing as required by the federal government.
   (E)   When there is reasonable cause to suspect possession, influence or use
of alcohol or drugs on the job, employees may be required to submit to a drug
or alcohol test. Refusal to submit to a search or test will be considered
insubordination, and the employee will be subject to discipline up to and
including termination.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.151 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   The village recognizes that sometimes situations arise in which an employee
feels that they have not been treated fairly or in accordance with village
rules and procedures. For this reason, the village provides its employees with
procedures for resolving complaints.
   (A)   Step one. An employee should first try to resolve any problem or
complaint within the village department.
   (B)   Step two. When normal communication between an employee and another
employees is not successful, or when an employee disagrees with the application
of village policies and procedures, the employee should attempt to resolve the
problem with the department head. The department head will respond to the
employee in writing within five days after meeting with the employee, if
possible.
   (C)   Step three. If the employee is not satisfied with the response from
the department head, the employee may submit the problem, in writing, to the
Village Board. The written complaint must contain, at a minimum:
      (1)   A description of the problem;
      (2)   A specific policy or procedure that the employee believes has been
violated or misapplied;
      (3)   The date of the circumstances leading to the complaint or the date
when the employee first became aware of those circumstances;
      (4)   The remedy sought by the employee to resolve the complaint; and
      (5)   The written complaint should be filed within ten working days of
the occurrence leading to the complaint, or ten working days after the employee
becomes aware of the circumstances.
   (D)   Decision of Board. The Village Board may meet with the parties, either
individually or together, and the Village Board will respond in writing to the
aggrieved employee within ten days of the meeting. The Village Board’s response
and decision shall be final and binding.
   (E)   One process only. Employees may have more than one source of dispute
resolution rights, i.e., a collective bargaining agreement, if any, and this
complaint process. In all other cases, the procedures described in this section
shall be used. Under no circumstance shall an employee have the right to
utilize both this process and any other complaint or appeal procedure that may
be available to an employee. Failure to follow this dispute resolution process
may result in discipline or termination.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.152 INTERNET USE.
   (A)   Generally. All information received or disseminated through village
computers will be considered the property of the village. System users have no
right to privacy and should have no expectation in materials sent, received or
stored in the village-owned computers. Personal email and internet use should
be kept to a minimum. Excessive use of email and internet privileges is
considered a theft of the employee’s time. Employees may not utilize village-
owned computers for personal gain or illegal or pornographic-related
activities. The misuse of village-owned computers could result in disciplinary
action, including termination.
   (B)   Specific examples of inappropriate use. Examples of inappropriate use
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Using village computers and network resources for illegal
activities (may include obscenity, child pornography, threats, harassment,
copyright infringement, defamation and theft);
      (2)   Using the village’s computer account without authorization
(attempting to access or accessing another’s account, private files or email
without the owner’s permission);
      (3)   Obtaining a password for a village computer account without
consent;
      (4)   Intentionally creating, modifying or copying files to or from areas
to which the user has not been granted access;
      (5)   Allowing access to village-owned computer resources by unauthorized
users;
      (6)   Altering system software or hardware configurations without
authorization;
      (7)   Using village computer and network resources to gain unauthorized
access to compute facilities off-site;
      (8)   Knowingly interfering with the normal operation of computers,
terminals, peripherals or networks. This includes but is not limited to loading
programs known as computer viruses, Trojan horses and worms;
      (9)   Intentionally using an abnormally large amount of resources, such
as processing time or disk space, without prior permission (e.g., sending
broadcast emails);
      (10)   Attempting to circumvent date protection schemes or uncover
security loopholes;
      (11)   Violating terms of applicable software licensing agreements or
copyright laws (installing, copying, distributing or using software in
violation of copyright and/or software agreements);
      (12)   Masking the identity of an account or machine (disguising one’s
identity in any way, including the sending of falsified messages, removal of
data from system files and the masking of process names);
      (13)   Posting materials on electronic bulletin boards that violate
existing laws or village regulations;
      (14)   Using village computers and networks resources for commercial or
profit-making purposes without written authorization from the Village Board;
and
      (15)   Failing to adhere to individual departmental or system policies,
procedures and protocols.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.153 SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
   (A)   The village may discipline or terminate an employee who is possessing,
consuming, controlling, selling or using alcohol, drugs or other controlled
substances during work hours or who reports for work or is at work under the
influence of alcohol, illegal drugs or any controlled substance. The village is
committed to supporting employees who undergo treatment and rehabilitation for
alcohol or other chemical dependencies.
   (B)   Employees who voluntarily report an alcohol, drug or controlled
substance dependency problem will not be subject to retaliation or
discrimination. Employees who voluntarily seek treatment may use sick leave to
attend a bona fide treatment or counseling program. The village may condition
continued employment on the employee’s successful completion of treatment or
counseling programs and future avoidance of alcohol, drugs or other controlled
substances.
   (C)   An employee may be required to submit to alcohol, drug or controlled
substance testing when the employee’s work performance causes a reasonable
suspicion that the employee is impaired due to current intoxication, drug or
controlled substance use, or in cases where employment has been conditioned
upon remaining alcohol-, drug- or controlled substance-free following
treatment.
   (D)   Employees using any prescription or over the counter drugs which might
impair their work performance should notify their department head. At the
option of the department head, an employee may be reassigned to less hazardous
duty or be placed on sick leave if impaired work performance might pose a
threat to the public confidence or to the safety of the employee or others.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
DISCIPLINE AND TERMINATIONS
§ 36.165 DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   All employees are expected to exercise good judgment, loyalty, common
sense, dedication and courtesy in the performance of their duties. The primary
mission of every employee is to provide courteous, orderly, efficient and
economic delivery of services to the citizens of the village.
   (B)   Acts, errors or omissions which discredit the public service to impair
the provision of orderly services to the citizens of the village may result in
discipline, including termination.
   (C)   The following are examples of the types of behavior which may result
in discipline:
      (1)   Drinking alcohol or the abuse of non-prescription or prescription
drugs or other controlled substances on the job, or arriving on the job under
the influence of or while in possession of alcohol, drugs or other controlled
substances;
      (2)   Violation of a lawful duty;
      (3)   Insubordination;
      (4)   Absence from work without first notifying and securing permission
from the department head;
      (5)   Habitual absence or tardiness for any reason;
      (6)   Unsatisfactory job performance, as determined by the village;
      (7)   Conviction of a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (8)   Acceptance of fees, gratuities or other valuable items in the
performance of the employee’s official duties for the village;
      (9)   Inability, refusal or failure to perform the duties of the assigned
job;
      (10)   Violation of duties or rules imposed by this manual, or by any
other village rule, regulation or administrative order; or
      (11)   Two written reprimands for any combination of offenses during a
12-month period.
   (D)   This list is not all-inclusive, but only serves as a general guide.
The village may discipline or terminate employees for other reasons not stated
above.
   (E)   In the event that discipline is necessary, the following types of
disciplinary actions may be used, depending on the particular situation.
      (1)   An ORAL WARNING is a counseling session between the employee’s
supervisor and the employee on the subject of the employee’s conduct and
performance, or his or her failure to observe a rule, regulation or
administrative instruction. It is intended to increase an employee’s efficiency
and value to the village by changing the employee’s conduct, attitude, habits
or work methods. Following the counseling session, the Village Clerk or Village
Board member assigned shall document the oral warning.
      (2)   A REPRIMAND is a formal written disciplinary action for misconduct,
inadequate performance or repeated lesser infractions.
      (3)   A SUSPENSION is a temporary, unpaid absence from duty which may be
imposed as a penalty for significant misconduct or repeated lesser infractions.
A suspension is a severe disciplinary action, which is made part of the
employee’s permanent record.
      (4)   Suspensions with pay, where the employee is placed on
administrative leave, may be utilized by the Village Board pending the results
of an investigation or disciplinary action where the Village Board determines
factors such as public confidence, the safety of the employee or the efficient
functioning of the village call for such suspension.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.166 TERMINATION.
   An employee may be terminated from village employment for various reasons,
including, but not limited to, those listed below:
   (A)   During or at the end of the employee’s probationary period;
   (B)   As a result of disciplinary action;
   (C)   Due to loss of skills, certifications or other conditions that would
make the employee unfit for service;
   (D)   When the Village Board has made a determination that a lack of work or
funding exists with respect to the employee’s position;
   (E)   If the employee has a physical or mental impairment that prevents the
employee from performing the required duties of the employee’s position and the
employee cannot be reasonably accommodated. Termination must be supported by
medical evidence which establishes that the individual is unable to perform
bona fide job requirements. The village may require an examination, at its
expense, performed by a physician of its choice. Failure to submit to such
request may result in termination; or
   (F)   Whenever the Village Board determines to make changes deemed to be in
the best interests of the village.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.167 PRE-TERMINATION HEARING.
   In the case of termination of an employee, the village will conduct a pre-
termination hearing. The pre-termination hearing serves as a check against a
mistaken decision and to determine whether there is reasonable presumption that
the reasons are valid and support termination.
   (A)   In the event an appointing authority desires to terminate an employee,
the employee shall be provided with a notice of the recommendation for
termination. The notice shall include an explanation of the reasons on which
the recommendation is based and the time and date for a pre-termination
hearing. If the employee fails or refuses to appear, the termination may
proceed.
   (B)   Pre-termination hearings will be presided over by the Village Board.
   (C)   At the hearing, the employee may explain why the employee should not
be terminated. The employee may bring one person to the hearing as an observer
or representative. The Village Board shall determine who, if anyone, may
participate in the hearing and how the hearing will be conducted.
   (D)   Within five working days after the pre-termination hearing, the
Village Board will issue a decision on whether the termination will proceed or
whether lesser disciplinary action will be applied. However, if the Village
Board determines that more information or time is required in order to render a
decision, the Village Board may extend the time period as deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.168 LAYOFF.
   (A)   The Village Board may lay off employees for lack of work, budgetary
restrictions or other changes that have taken place.
   (B)   Temporary employees or employees who have not completed their
probationary period will be laid off before regular employees are affected.
   (C)   In determining who is to be laid off, consideration will be given to
individual performance and the qualifications required for the remaining jobs.
Seniority will be considered when performance and qualifications are equal.
   (D)   Employees who are laid off may be eligible to be re-employed if a
vacancy occurs in a position for which they are qualified.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 36.169 DEATH.
   Upon the death of an employee, all compensation due shall be paid to the
surviving spouse or the estate of the employee.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
§ 36.180 JOB DESCRIPTION SUMMARIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The job description summaries for Village Clerk; Maintenance Superintendent;
Utility Person; and Utility Worker—Maintenance are adopted by reference and
enforceable as if herein set out in full.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
EMPLOYEE EVALUATIONS
§ 36.195 EVALUATION FORMS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The employee evaluation forms for Village Clerk; Maintenance Superintendent;
and Utility Worker—Maintenance are adopted by reference and enforceable as if
herein set out in full.
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
APPENDIX A: STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING AND RECEIPT OF PERSONNEL POLICY
 
VILLAGE OF PENDER
 
STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING AND
RECEIPT OF PERSONNEL POLICY
 
 
THE UNDERSIGNED acknowledges that he/she has been provided with a copy of the
Personnel Policy for the Village of Pender and further that they have read and
understand its contents.
 
 
The contents of this manual are presented for information only. The plans,
policies, and procedures described are not conditions of employment. The
Village reserves the right to modify, revoke, suspend, terminate, or change any
or all plans, policies, or procedures, in whole or in part, at any time with or
without notice. The language, which appears in this manual, is not intended to
create nor is it to be construed to constitute a contact between the Village
and any one or all of its employees.
 
 
Dated this _____ day of _____________, 20________.
 
 
 
 
 
____________________________________ Employee’s Signature
 
 
____________________________________ Employee’s Printed Name
 
 
(Ord. 648, passed 11-9-2020; Ord. 688, passed 9-11-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   ELECTRICITY
      
53.   GAS
      
54.   SEWER
      
55.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
50.03   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.04   Delinquent utility assessment
   
50.05   Utility deposit refunds
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in this village shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
§ 50.02 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current, or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any village utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner
that any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any village utility supplying such service if the service has
been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 to 70-1615 or relevant provisions
of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance, in any manner, interfere with or obstruct the action or operation
of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it,
without the knowledge and consent of any village utility supplying the
electricity, electric current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through
the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The village utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A village utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the village
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit and reasonable attorney fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-
1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant, at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist, caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 DELINQUENT UTILITY ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a delinquency charge of 5% of the
utilities furnished to the consumer. All village utilities shall be billed by
the first of the month; said utility bills shall be due at the village office
by the fifteenth of the month; and a delinquency assessment of 5% of the
utility bill (excluding tax) shall be added to the bill if not paid in full by
the fifteenth of the month.
   (B)   The delinquency assessment shall apply to all city services including
electricity, water, gas and sewerage.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.05 UTILITY DEPOSIT REFUNDS.
   (A)   Service deposits required by either the Municipal Gas Department,
Municipal Water Department or Municipal Electrical Department shall be refunded
to the customer or consumer upon the happening of one of the following:
      (1)   A utility customer or consumer has, for a period of not less than
12 consecutive months, kept his or her utility bills current and paid the same
on or before the due date during the said period of time; or
      (2)   The said customer or consumer is moving to a new residence outside
of the village and will not be served by any of the utilities of the said
village, and the said customer’s or consumer’s utility bills, including all
past, present or any contemplated future utility bills, are fully paid.
   (B)   Upon the happening of either of the foregoing, the said customer or
consumer shall be entitled to a refund of his or her utility deposit, and the
said refund will be of principal only; excluding any interest thereon during
the period of time in which the same was possessed by the village.
(Ord. 333, passed 2-9-1987)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Municipal solid waste removal and landfill rates
   
51.02   Additional trash can fee
   
51.03   Service outside corporate limits
§ 51.01 MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE REMOVAL AND LANDFILL RATES.
   (A)   Except as set forth below, residential customers, excluding commercial
customers, shall be charged a minimum fee of $26, which represents a monthly
charge of $21 per residential customer per an agreement with S2 Roll-Offs, LLC,
and a $5 monthly fee representing administration costs and the use of the
village’s landfill for permitted residential refuse.
   (B)   Multi-family residences, apartments or townhome customers who utilize
the village’s refuse service shall be charged the same rate as all other
residential customers. Multi-family residences, apartments or townhome
customers may opt out of the village’s refuse service if there is an existing
trash disposal contract servicing their facility with a commercial provider,
but a $5 fee for access to the village’s landfill for permitted residential use
shall be assessed to said customers.
(Ord. 682, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 51.02 ADDITIONAL TRASH CAN FEE.
   Residential customers who have an existing trash can provided by the
village’s trash disposal provider shall have the option of requesting an
additional trash can. Customers who utilize this option shall be charged an
additional $8 per month.
(Ord. 682, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 51.03 SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Should the Village Board vote to provide said services to a customer outside
of the corporate limits, and providing that the trash removal company agrees to
provide the service, whether or not within the zoning jurisdiction of the
village, said service shall be provided at a rate 15% higher than the above-
referenced rates for the service charge and usage.
(Ord. 682, passed 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRICITY
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Use of rates collected
   
52.02   Billing; notice of delinquency; discontinuance of service
   
52.03   Notice to disconnect service
   
52.04   Disputing discontinuance of service
   
52.05   Conference to dispute
   
52.06   Postponing discontinuance
   
52.07   Necessary disconnections or interruptions
   
52.08   Inspection when reconnecting after a disconnection
   
52.09   Consumer application and deposit; exceptions
Rates and Fees
   
52.20   Consumer liability; rate revision and application
   
52.21   General provisions
   
52.22   Residential electric rates
   
52.23   Commercial electric/general service (single-phase)
   
52.24   Commercial electric/general service (three-phase)
   
52.25   Large power (demand)
   
52.26   Cost to reconnect after disconnection for nonpayment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 USE OF RATES COLLECTED.
   (A)   The rates charged to electric system consumers shall be collected and
shall be maintained for debt service, administration and other miscellaneous
overhead costs and shall be collected and maintained for the operation,
maintenance and replacement of the electric facilities.
   (B)   Annually, a total of $10,000 is to be placed in a certificate of
deposit for the purpose of replacement needs over the useful life of the
electric system.
(Ord. 680, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 52.02 BILLING; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Electric bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Village Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall read or cause to be read
water meters monthly between the first day and the third day of the month
during which service is used.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall direct the Village Clerk to charge
and collect from each customer for the amount of electricity consumed since the
last examination, together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the
Electrical Department. Bills shall be disbursed by the Village Clerk by the
eighth of each month following the month in which the service was used and due
by the twenty-fifth of each month.
   (C)   Bills paid after the twenty-fifth day of the month shall have a
penalty charge added thereto in an amount set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk. Bills not paid by the
twenty-fifth day of the month following the month in which the service was used
shall be deemed delinquent. Any person having a delinquent bill for services
provided by the village is subject to discontinuance of such service.
   (D)   Upon being deemed delinquent as herein defined, the Village Clerk
shall give written notice to the consumer of such delinquency and shall demand
payment immediately. In the event the bill is not paid within seven days,
weekends and holidays excluded, after the sending of said notice, it shall be
discretionary with the Utilities Superintendent to cut off service at any time;
provided, if the delinquent consumer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be
the duty of the Village Clerk to notify the consumer by certified mail of the
proposed termination and to notify the Department of Health and Human Services.
The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an additional fee, set by resolution
of the Board of Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk, in the
event that electricity is shut off to compensate the village for the additional
hook-up necessary to again provide electrical service to the delinquent
consumer.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 597, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 52.03 NOTICE TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The notice shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
   (B)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
   (C)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
   (D)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or department
to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
   (E)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date, to
request a conference regarding any dispute over the proposed disconnection;
   (F)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service pending
the conclusion of the conference;
   (G)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate, which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within the
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
the subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. This
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from that filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (G) for each
incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
   (H)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for restoration
of service;
   (I)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan; and
   (J)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard.
(Ord. 597, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 52.04 DISPUTING DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of service by
notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets forth the reasons
for the dispute and the relief requested within five days of the date the
notice was mailed. If a statement has been made by the subscriber, a conference
shall be held before the municipality may discontinue services.
(Ord. 597, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 52.05 CONFERENCE TO DISPUTE.
   (A)   Upon notice to the employee designated by the utility of any request
for a conference by a domestic subscriber, the employee shall:
      (1)   Notify the domestic subscriber, in writing, of the time, place and
date scheduled for the conference; and
      (2)   Hold a conference within 14 days of the receipt of the domestic
subscriber’s request. Such conference shall be informal and shall not be
governed by the state’s Rules of Evidence. If the employer determines at the
conference that the domestic subscriber did not receive proper notice or was
denied any other right afforded under Neb. RS 70-1605 to 70-1615, when
applicable, the employer shall recess and continue the conference at such time
as the subscriber has been afforded his or her rights. Failure of a domestic
subscriber to attend a scheduled conference shall relieve the utility of any
further action prior to the discontinuance of service. If a domestic subscriber
contacts the utility prior to the scheduled conference and demonstrates that
failure to attend is for a legitimate reason, the utility shall make reasonable
effort to reschedule the conference.
   (B)   The employee of the utility shall, based solely on the evidence
presented at the hearing, affirm, reverse or modify any decision by the utility
involving a disputed bill which results in threatened termination of utility
service. The employee shall allow termination of utility service only as a
measure of last resort and after the utility has exhausted all other remedies
less drastic than termination. Any customer may appeal that decision to the
Village Board by filing a written request with the Village Clerk within five
days of mailing the decision of the utility employee. The appeal shall be
conducted in accordance with Neb. RS 70-1614 et seq.
(Ord. 597, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 52.06 POSTPONING DISCONTINUANCE.
   In determining whether just cause exists to postpone discontinuance of
utility service, the Board shall consider the following factors:
   (A)   The requirements of the village pursuant to bonding agreements;
   (B)   The size of the delinquency;
   (C)   The effort, if any, of the person who is delinquent to pay the
delinquency;
   (D)   The likelihood that the delinquency will be paid within a reasonably
short time; and
   (E)   The likelihood future services will not be timely paid and will be
allowed to become delinquent.
(Ord. 597, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 52.07 NECESSARY DISCONNECTIONS OR INTERRUPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Ord. 597, passed 8-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 52.08 INSPECTION WHEN RECONNECTING AFTER A DISCONNECTION.
   If electrical service to a property has been disconnected for a period of at
least 30 days, no reconnection shall be permitted until the utility customer
provides the Utility Superintendent with written certification from a licensed
electrician that states that the electrical system complies with code
requirements and can be safely connected to the municipality’s electrical
system.
(Ord. 634, passed 9-18-2018)
§ 52.09 CONSUMER APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk. Every applicant shall give the
Municipal Clerk sufficient time to verify prior utility history with the
applicant’s former provider, if any.
   (B)   Utility services shall be connected within three days after receipt of
the deposit described below. Any applicant having a prior utility record that
is satisfactory and not delinquent shall be required to make a service deposit
in the amount of $50 for said service. Any applicant with an unsatisfactory or
delinquent prior utility record, or no prior utility history, shall be required
to make a service deposit in the amount of $150 for said service. Landlords who
own more than two premises within the municipality shall not be required to pay
more than one deposit.
   (C)   Said deposit shall be refunded upon termination of the service at the
request of the applicant upon moving and vacating the premises if the utility
payments are not, at that time, in arrears.
   (D)   Electricity may not be supplied to any house or building, except upon
the order of the Municipal Clerk.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
supply electrical service to non-residents. The municipal electrical system
shall not supply electrical services to any person or entity outside of the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of wire, installation, and other expenses shall be paid by
the consumer.
(Ord. 695, passed 8-26-2024)
RATES AND FEES
§ 52.20 CONSUMER LIABILITY; RATE REVISION AND APPLICATION.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the following minimum rates as
provided herein. Rates shall be set, revised or amended by the Village Board of
Trustees by ordinance made at a regular or special meeting of the Board and
shall be on file at the office of the Village Clerk for public inspection at
any reasonable time. Said rates shall apply unless and until the consumer
shall, by written order, direct the Utilities Superintendent to shut off the
electricity, in which case, he or she shall not be liable thereafter for
additional electrical service until the electricity is turned on again.
(Ord. 680, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 52.21 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Metered demand. The metered demand for any month shall be the maximum
kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any 30-minute interval during
the month as indicated or recorded by a demand meter.
   (B)   Billing demand. The demand to be billed shall be the metered demand
for the month, but not less than 60% of the highest metered demand during the
preceding 11 months.
   (C)   Primary discount.
      (1)   The utility will furnish and install primary metering when service
is taken by the consumer and metered at primary voltage. The consumer owns and
installs all necessary primary facilities and transformers beyond point of
service. A 2% discount will apply to demand and energy charges.
      (2)   If service is metered at primary voltage but the village owns the
transformation equipment, a 1% discount will apply to demand and energy
charges.
   (D)   Billing seasons defined. For all rate classes, billing seasons shall
be defined as follows:
      (1)   Winter season shall include billing for meter readings occurring
between October 1 and May 31; and
      (2)   Summer season shall include billing for meter readings occurring
between June 1 and September 30.
   (E)   Production cost adjustment. The retail rates as set forth below are
based on the schedule of rates and charges under Service Schedule M from the
Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska (MEAN). In the event of a production cost
adjustment (or pooled energy adjustment) by MEAN, the adjustment amount may be
added or deducted on a kilowatt hour (kWh) basis to all bills rendered by the
village.
(Ord. 680, passed 12-13-2022)
§ 52.22 RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC RATES.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   This schedule is applicable to all kilowatt hour sales for
residential lighting, cooking, electric irons, toaster, radios, television,
ovens, refrigeration, air conditioning and heating, water heaters and other
socket appliances and small single-phase utility motors served through a
service meter. This schedule is applicable to mobile home parks.
      (2)    A monthly meter fee of $5 per residential customer shall be
charged for the acquisition, maintenance and replacement costs associated with
the electrical service.
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   Sixty cycle, AC, single-phase, 120 volt, two wire; or
      (2)   Sixty cycle, AC, single-phase, 120/240 volt, three wire.
   (C)   Rates by season.
      (1)   The summer rates are as follows.
 
Summer Rate
Customer service charge $15.75
First 700 kWh, per kWh  $0.13620
Over 700 kWh, per kWh   $0.12400
Meter fee               $5
 
      (2)   The winter rates are as follows.
 
Winter Rate
Customer service charge $15.75
First 700 kWh, per kWh  $0.13641
Over 700 kWh, per kWh   $0.11760
Meter fee               $5
 
   (D)   Summer and winter seasons. For all rate classes, billing seasons shall
be defined as follows:
      (1)   Summer season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between June 1 and September 30.
      (2)   Winter season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between October 1 and May 31.
   (E)   Production cost adjustment. The retail rates as set forth above are
based on the Schedule of Rate and Charges under Service Schedule M from the
Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska (MEAN). In the event of a production cost
adjustment (or pooled energy adjustment) by MEAN, the adjustment amount may be
added or deducted on a kWh basis to all bills rendered by the village.
(Ord. 680, passed 12-13-2022; Ord. 701, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 52.23 COMMERCIAL ELECTRIC/GENERAL SERVICE (SINGLE-PHASE).
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   This schedule is applicable to all kilowatt hour sales to all
establishments which are operating as a business and shall include single-phase
lighting and power. This schedule shall include apartments, churches, offices,
small manufacturers, stores, shops, trailer camps and similar operations where
metered under one name. All service will be at the system’s standard voltages.
      (2)    A monthly meter fee of $10 per commercial customer shall be
charged for the acquisition, maintenance and replacement costs associated with
the electrical service.
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   Sixty cycle, AC, single-phase, 120 volt, two wire; or
      (2)   Sixty cycle, AC, single-phase, 120/240 volt, three wire.
   (C)   Rates by season.
      (1)   The summer rates are as follows.
 
Summer Rate
Customer service charge  $22.50
First 3,800 kWh, per kWh $0.14041
Over 3,800 kWh, per kWh  $0.12801
Meter fee                $10
 
      (2)   The winter rates are as follows.
 
Winter Rate
Customer service charge  $22.50
First 3,800 kWh, per kWh $0.13982
Over 3,800 kWh, per kWh  $0.12084
Meter fee                $10
 
   (D)   Summer and winter seasons. For all rate classes, billing seasons shall
be defined as follows:
      (1)   Summer season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between June 1 and September 30.
      (2)   Winter season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between October 1 and May 31.
   (E)   Production cost adjustment. The retail rates as set forth above are
based on the Schedule of Rate and Charges under Service Schedule M from the
Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska (MEAN). In the event of a production cost
adjustment (or pooled energy adjustment) by MEAN, the adjustment amount may be
added or deducted on a kWh basis to all bills rendered by the village.
(Ord. 680, passed 12-13-2022; Ord. 702, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 52.24 COMMERCIAL ELECTRIC/GENERAL SERVICE (THREE-PHASE).
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   This schedule is applicable to all kilowatt hour sales to all
establishments which are operating as a business and have three-phase power and
less than 100-kilowatt demands. This schedule shall include apartments,
churches, offices, care centers, small manufacturers, retail stores, shops and
similar operations where metered under one customer, all at the system’s
standard voltage.
      (2)    A monthly meter fee of $10 per commercial customer (three-phase
power) shall be charged for the acquisition, maintenance and replacement costs
associated with the electrical service.
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   Sixty cycle, AC, three-phase, 120/208-240 volt, three or four wire;
or
      (2)   Sixty cycle, AC, three-phase, 277/480 volt; three or four wire.
   (C)   Rates by season.
      (1)   The summer rates are as follows.
 
Summer Rate
Customer service charge  $38.50
First 3,800 kWh, per kWh $0.14041
Over 3,800 kWh, per kWh  $0.12801
Meter fee                $10
 
      (2)   The winter rates are as follows.
 
Winter Rate
Customer service charge  $38.50
First 3,800 kWh, per kWh $0.13982
Over 3,800 kWh, per kWh  $0.12084
Meter fee                $10
 
   (D)   Summer and winter seasons. For all rate classes, billing seasons shall
be defined as follows:
      (1)   Summer season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between June 1 and September 30.
      (2)   Winter season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between October 1 and May 31.
   (E)   Production cost adjustment. The retail rates as set forth above are
based on the Schedule of Rate and Charges under Service Schedule M from the
Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska (MEAN). In the event of a production cost
adjustment (or pooled energy adjustment) by MEAN, the adjustment amount may be
added or deducted on a kWh basis to all bills rendered by the village.
(Ord. 680, passed 12-13-2022; Ord. 703, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 52.25 LARGE POWER (DEMAND).
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   This schedule is applicable to any customer with an annual peak
demand, defined as the maximum hourly integrated demand during the previous 12
months, in excess of 100 kilowatts, or any new customer (or existing customer
that modifies its usage) that is projected to have an annual peak demand in
excess of 100 kilowatts.
      (2)   Customers are required to stay on the large power (demand) rate for
a minimum of 12 months. Removal from the large power (demand) to the general
service (three-phase) rate may take place if the customer demonstrates in the
previous 12 billing periods no billing demand greater than 100 kilowatts.
      (3)    A monthly meter fee of $10 per large power (demand) customer shall
be charged for the acquisition, maintenance and replacement costs associated
with the electrical service.
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   Sixty cycle, AC, three-phase, 120/208-240 volt, three or four wire;
or
      (2)   Sixty cycle, AC, three-phase, 277/480 volt, three or four wire.
   (C)   Rates by season.
      (1)   The summer rates are as follows.
 
Summer Rate
Customer service charge $97
Demand charge, per kW   $18.25
Energy charge, per kWh  $0.0772
Meter fee               $10
 
      (2)   The winter rates are as follows.
 
Winter Rate
Customer service charge $97
Demand charge, per kWh  $15.50
Energy charge, per kWh  $0.0772
Meter fee               $10
 
      (3)   Metered demand. The metered demand for any month shall be the
maximum kilowatt demand established by the consumer for any 30-minute interval
during the month as indicated or recorded by the demand meter.
      (4)   Billing demand. The demand to be billed shall be the metered demand
for the month, but not less than 60% of the highest metered demand during the
preceding 11 months.
      (5)   Primary discount. 
         (a)   The utility will furnish and install primary metering when the
service is taken by the consumer and metered at primary voltage. The consumer
owns and installs all necessary primary facilities and transformers beyond
point of service. A 2% discount will apply to demand and energy charges.
         (b)   If service is metered at primary voltage, but the village owns
the transformation equipment, a 1% discount will apply to demand and energy
charges.
   (D)   Summer and winter seasons. For all rate classes, billing seasons shall
be defined as follows:
      (1)   Summer season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between June 1 and September 30.
      (2)   Winter season shall include billing for meter reading occurring
between October 1 and May 31.
   (E)   Production cost adjustment. The retail rates as set forth above are
based on the Schedule of Rate and Charges under Service Schedule M from the
Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska (MEAN). In the event of a production cost
adjustment (or pooled energy adjustment) by MEAN, the adjustment amount may be
added or deducted on a kWh basis to all bills rendered by the village.
(Ord. 680, passed 12-13-2022; Ord. 704, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 52.26 COST TO RECONNECT AFTER DISCONNECTION FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If the utility service has been disconnected for nonpayment of
account, and if the account is brought current or satisfactory arrangements
made for full payment of the account, then the cost to restore the service
during regular working hours shall be in the sum of $125.
      (2)   If reconnection is not made during regular working hours, then an
additional charge of $50 will be made for the reconnection.
   (B)   If satisfactory arrangements or payments are not made for the
discontinued utility service or if the village has no recourse or legal remedy
to recover the discontinued utility service, then an additional deposit in the
sum of $200 shall be made by the subscriber to assure the village that future
utility accounts will be properly paid. This deposit will be in addition to any
restoration costs as aforesaid.
(Ord. 679, passed 12-13-2022)
CHAPTER 53: GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Billing; notice of delinquency; discontinuance of service
   
53.02   Notice to disconnect service
   
53.03   Disputing discontinuance of service
   
53.04   Conference to dispute
   
53.05   Postponing discontinuance
   
53.06   Necessary disconnections or interruptions
   
53.07   Consumer application and deposit; exceptions
Rates and Fees
   
53.20   Minimum rates apply
   
53.21   Residential/rural/small commercial
   
53.22   Commercial
   
53.23   Gas (interruptible)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 BILLING; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Gas bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Village Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall read or cause to be read
water meters monthly between the first day and the third day of the month
during which service is used.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall direct the Village Clerk to charge
and collect from each customer for the amount of gas consumed since the last
examination, together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Gas
Department. Bills shall be disbursed by the Village Clerk by the first of each
month following the month in which the service was used and due by the twenty-
fifth of each month.
   (C)   Bills paid after the twenty-fifth day of the month shall have a
penalty charge added thereto in an amount set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk. Bills not paid by the
twenty-fifth day of the month following the month in which the service was used
shall be deemed delinquent. Any person having a delinquent bill for services
provided by the village is subject to discontinuance of such service.
   (D)   Upon being deemed delinquent as herein defined, the Village Clerk
shall give written notice to the consumer of such delinquency and shall demand
payment immediately. In the event the bill is not paid within seven days,
weekends and holidays excluded, after the sending of said notice, it shall be
discretionary with the Utilities Superintendent to cut off service at any time;
provided, if the delinquent consumer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be
the duty of the Village Clerk to notify the consumer by certified mail of the
proposed termination and to notify the Department of Health and Human Services.
The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an additional fee, set by resolution
of the Board of Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk, in the
event that gas is shut off to compensate the village for the additional hook-up
necessary to again provide gas service to the delinquent consumer.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 596, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 53.02 NOTICE TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The disconnection notice shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
   (B)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
   (C)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
   (D)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or department
to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
   (E)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date, to
request a conference regarding any dispute over the proposed disconnection;
   (F)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service pending
the conclusion of the conference;
   (G)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate, which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within the
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
the subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. This
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from that filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (G) for each
incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
   (H)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for restoration
of service;
   (I)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan; and
   (J)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard.
(Ord. 596, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 53.03 DISPUTING DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of service by
notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets forth the reasons
for the dispute and the relief requested within five days of the date the
notice was mailed. If a statement has been made by the subscriber, a conference
shall be held before the municipality may discontinue services.
(Ord. 596, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 53.04 CONFERENCE TO DISPUTE.
   (A)   Upon notice to the employee designated by the utility of any request
for a conference by a domestic subscriber, the employee shall:
      (1)   Notify the domestic subscriber, in writing, of the time, place and
date scheduled for the conference; and
      (2)   Hold a conference within 14 days of the receipt of the domestic
subscriber’s request. Such conference shall be informal and shall not be
governed by the state’s Rules of Evidence. If the employer determines at the
conference that the domestic subscriber did not receive proper notice or was
denied any other right afforded under Neb. RS 70-1605 to 70-1615, when
applicable, the employer shall recess and continue the conference at such time
as the subscriber has been afforded his or her rights. Failure of a domestic
subscriber to attend a scheduled conference shall relieve the utility of any
further action prior to the discontinuance of service. If a domestic subscriber
contacts the utility prior to the scheduled conference and demonstrates that
failure to attend is for a legitimate reason, the utility shall make reasonable
effort to reschedule the conference.
   (B)   The employee of the utility shall, based solely on the evidence
presented at the hearing, affirm, reverse or modify any decision by the utility
involving a disputed bill which results in threatened termination of utility
service. The employee shall allow termination of utility service only as a
measure of last resort and after the utility has exhausted all other remedies
less drastic than termination. Any customer may appeal that decision to the
Village Board by filing a written request with the Village Clerk within five
days of mailing the decision of the utility employee. The appeal shall be
conducted in accordance with Neb. RS 70-1614 et seq.
(Ord. 596, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 53.05 POSTPONING DISCONTINUANCE.
   In determining whether just cause exists to postpone discontinuance of
utility service, the Board shall consider:
   (A)   The requirements of the village pursuant to bonding agreements;
   (B)   The size of the delinquency;
   (C)   The effort, if any, of the person who is delinquent to pay the
delinquency;
   (D)   The likelihood that the delinquency will be paid within a reasonably
short time; and
   (E)   The likelihood that future services will not be timely paid and will
be allowed to become delinquent.
(Ord. 596, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 53.06 NECESSARY DISCONNECTIONS OR INTERRUPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Ord. 596, passed 8-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 53.07 CONSUMER APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring gas service must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk. Every applicant shall give the Municipal Clerk
sufficient time to verify prior utility history with the applicant’s former
provider, if any.
   (B)   Gas services shall be connected within three days after receipt of the
deposit described below. Any applicant having a prior utility record that is
satisfactory and not delinquent shall be required to make a service deposit in
the amount of $50 for said service. Any applicant with an unsatisfactory or
delinquent prior utility record, or no prior utility history, shall be required
to make a service deposit in the amount of $150 for said service. Landlords who
own more than two premises within the municipality shall not be required to pay
more than one deposit.
   (C)   Said deposit shall be refunded upon termination of the service at the
request of the applicant upon moving and vacating the premises if the utility
payments are not, at that time, in arrears.
   (D)   Gas may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the order
of the Municipal Clerk.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
supply gas service to non-residents. The municipal gas supply system shall not
supply gas services to any person or entity outside of the corporate limits
without special permission from the governing body; provided, that the entire
cost of wire, installation, and other expenses shall be paid by the consumer.
(Ord. 696, passed 8-26-2024)
RATES AND FEES
§ 53.20 MINIMUM RATES APPLY.
   All consumers shall be liable for the hereinafter designated rates unless
the consumer directs the Utility Superintendent, by written order, to shut off
the gas, in which case, said consumer shall not be liable thereafter for new
charges for gas until the gas is turned on again. Monthly rates are as follows
in §§
53.21 to 53.23 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 673, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 53.21 RESIDENTIAL/RURAL/SMALL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   The customer monthly base charge is $15 per month.
   (B)    Cost of the commodity plus an additional 20% added to the commodity
charge/monthly charge.
   (C)   The meter fee is $5 per month.
   (D)   Should the Village Board vote to provide said services to a customer
outside of the corporate limits, whether or not within the zoning jurisdiction
of the village, all costs of installation of said service shall be borne by the
customer. Said service shall be provided at a rate 15% higher than the above-
referenced rates for the service charge and usage. The meter fee shall be $5
per month.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 673, passed 4-11-2022; Ord. 705, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 53.22 COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   The customer monthly base charge is $20 per month.
   (B)    The cost of the commodity plus an additional 20% added to the
commodity charge/customer monthly charge.
   (C)   The meter fee is $10 per month.
   (D)   Should the Village Board vote to provide said services to a customer
outside of the corporate limits, whether or not within the zoning jurisdiction
of the village, all costs of installation of said service shall be borne by the
customer. Said service shall be provided at a rate 15% higher than the above-
referenced rates for the service charge and usage. The meter fee shall be $10
per month.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 673, passed 4-11-2022; Ord. 706, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 53.23 GAS (INTERRUPTIBLE).
   (A)   The customer monthly base charge is $40 per month.
   (B)    The cost of commodity plus an additional 20% added to the commodity
charge/monthly charge.
   (C)   The meter fee is $10 every month.
   (D)   Should the Village Board vote to provide said services to an
interruptible customer outside of the corporate limits, whether or not within
the zoning jurisdiction of the village, all costs of installation of said
service shall be borne by the customer. Said service shall be provided at a
rate 15% higher than the above-referenced rates for the service charge and
usage. The meter fee shall be $10 per month.
   (E)   This applies only to Pender Public School, Pender Community Hospital
and Pender Grain Company.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 673, passed 4-11-2022; Ord. 707, passed 4-14-2025)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Billing; notice of delinquency; discontinuance of service
   
54.02   Notice to disconnect service
   
54.03   Disputing discontinuance of service
   
54.04   Conference to dispute
   
54.05   Postponing discontinuance
   
54.06   Necessary disconnections or interruptions
   
54.07   Lien upon real estate
Rates and Fees
   
54.20   Flat rates apply
   
54.21   Purpose
   
54.22   Definitions
   
54.23   Fund establishment
   
54.24   Rates by consumer class
   
54.25   Surcharges
   
54.26   Consumers outside corporate limits
   
54.27   Determination of proportional rates
   
54.28   Consumers with private water supplies
   
54.29   Rate saving clause
   
54.30   Finding of equitable rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 BILLING; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Sewer bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Village Clerk. Bills shall be disbursed by the Village Clerk by the first of
each month following the month in which the service was used and due by the
twenty-fifth of each month.
   (B)   Bills paid after the twenty-fifth day of the month shall have a
penalty charge added thereto in an amount set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk. Bills not paid by the
twenty-fifth day of the month following the month in which the service was used
shall be deemed delinquent. Any person having a delinquent bill for services
provided by the village is subject to discontinuance of such service.
   (C)   Upon being deemed delinquent as herein defined, the Village Clerk
shall give written notice to the consumer of such delinquency and shall demand
payment immediately. In the event the bill is not paid within seven days,
weekends and holidays excluded, after the sending of said notice, it shall be
discretionary with the Utilities Superintendent to cut off service at any time;
provided, if the delinquent consumer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be
the duty of the Village Clerk to notify the consumer by certified mail of the
proposed termination and to notify the Department of Health and Human Services.
The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an additional fee, set by resolution
of the Board of Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk, in the
event of sewer shutoff to compensate the village for the additional hook-up
necessary to again provide sewer service to the delinquent consumer.
(Ord. 595, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 54.02 NOTICE TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The notice shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
   (B)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
   (C)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
   (D)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or department
to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
   (E)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date, to
request a conference regarding any dispute over the proposed disconnection;
   (F)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service pending
the conclusion of the conference;
   (G)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate, which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within the
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
the subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. This
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from that filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (G) for each
incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
   (H)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for restoration
of service;
   (I)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan; and
   (J)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard.
(Ord. 595, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 54.03 DISPUTING DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of service by
notifying the municipality within five days of when the notice was mailed with
a written statement that sets forth the reasons for the dispute and the relief
requested. If a statement has been made by the subscriber, a conference shall
be held before the municipality may discontinue services.
(Ord. 595, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 54.04 CONFERENCE TO DISPUTE.
   (A)   Upon notice to the employee designated by the utility of any request
for a conference by a domestic subscriber, the employee shall:
      (1)   Notify the domestic subscriber, in writing, of the time, place and
date scheduled for the conference; and
      (2)   Hold a conference within 14 days of the receipt of the domestic
subscriber’s request. Such conference shall be informal and shall not be
governed by the state’s Rules of Evidence. If the employer determines at the
conference that the domestic subscriber did not receive proper notice or was
denied any other right afforded under Neb. RS 70-1605 to 70-1615, when
applicable, the employer shall recess and continue the conference at such time
as the subscriber has been afforded his or her rights. Failure of a domestic
subscriber to attend a scheduled conference shall relieve the utility of any
further action prior to the discontinuance of service. If a domestic subscriber
contacts the utility prior to the scheduled conference and demonstrates that
failure to attend is for a legitimate reason, the utility shall make reasonable
effort to reschedule the conference.
   (B)   The employee of the utility shall, based solely on the evidence
presented at the hearing, affirm, reverse or modify any decision by the utility
involving a disputed bill which results in threatened termination of utility
service. The employee shall allow termination of utility service only as a
measure of last resort and after the utility has exhausted all other remedies
less drastic than termination. Any customer may appeal that decision to the
Village Board by filing a written request with the Village Clerk within five
days of mailing the decision of the utility employee. The appeal shall be
conducted in accordance with Neb. RS 70-1614 et seq.
(Ord. 595, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 54.05 POSTPONING DISCONTINUANCE.
   In determining whether just cause exists to postpone discontinuance of
utility service, the Board shall consider:
   (A)   The requirements of the village pursuant to bonding agreements;
   (B)   The size of the delinquency;
   (C)   The effort, if any, of the person who is delinquent to pay the
delinquency;
   (D)   The likelihood that the delinquency will be paid within a reasonably
short time; and
   (E)   The likelihood that future services will not be timely paid and will
be allowed to become delinquent.
(Ord. 595, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 54.06 NECESSARY DISCONNECTIONS OR INTERRUPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Ord. 595, passed 8-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 54.07 LIEN UPON REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   Unpaid sewer use charges. All sewer use charges prescribed by this
chapter shall be a lien upon the premises and real estate for which the sewer
service is supplied and used, and if not paid when due, such charges shall be
certified to the Village Clerk and may be recovered by the village in an action
at law from the owner or the person, firm or corporation requesting the
service, or it may be certified to the tax assessor and assessed against the
premises served and collected or returned in the same manner as other municipal
taxes are certified, assessed, collected and returned. Bills for the sewer use
charges made by this chapter shall be rendered in advance of the first day of
each month, and all sewer charges levied by this chapter which are not paid
within 25 days shall be deemed to be delinquent, and the water service of such
consumer may be discontinued.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
   (B)   Unpaid water service charges. In addition to all other remedies, if a
customer shall for any reason remain indebted to the municipality for water
service furnished, such amount due, together with any rents and charges in
arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water rent that is hereby declared to
be a lien upon the real estate for which the same was used. The Village Clerk
shall notify in writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of
premises, or their agents, whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or
more delinquent in the payment of water rent. It shall be the duty of the
Utilities Superintendent on the first day of June of each year to report to the
governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for water, together with a
description of the premise upon which the same was used. The report shall be
examined and, if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the
Village Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code § 3-110)
RATES AND FEES
§ 54.20 FLAT RATES APPLY.
   Customers of the Village Sewer Department shall be charged the following
flat rate(s) for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set, revised or
amended by the Village Board of Trustees by resolution made at a regular or
special meeting of the Board and shall be on file at the office of the Village
Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.21 PURPOSE.
   The village has constructed and owns and operates a sanitary sewerage
system, which system carries the liquid and solid waste sewage of such
community and the residents thereof. For the purpose of paying the capital
costs of improvement to the sewerage system, operation, maintenance and
replacement of the sewerage facilities and principal and interest of any bonds
issued for improvements, there is hereby established a sanitary sewer use
charge against each lot, parcel of land or premises served by said sanitary
sewerage system, or which discharges wastewater, either directly or indirectly,
into such sanitary sewerage system or any part thereof.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. Includes all users of the municipal sanitary sewerage system of
the village, including all persons, firms or corporations whose premises are
served thereby and all owners and tenants of real estate and buildings
connected with the sanitary sewerage system or served thereby, and all users of
the system who in any way use the same or discharge sanitary sewage, industrial
wastewater or other liquid, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary
sewerage system of the village. Consumers shall be classified as “single-family
residential,” “multiple-family residential,” “commercial” and “industrial.”
      (1)   COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS. All business establishments whose primary
purpose is to provide a service to consumers. COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS do not
include industrial consumers as further defined in this section.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL CONSUMERS. All business establishments whose primary
purpose is the manufacturing, processing, packaging or assembling of a product
for resale, distribution or custom ordering.
      (3)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS. Multiple-dwellings of
apartment buildings, where the primary purpose of the facility is to provide
residential quarters for more than one family.
      (4)   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS. One-family dwellings,
including mobile and modular homes, where the primary purpose of the facility
is for residential purposes. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS shall include
funeral homes and churches.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.23 FUND ESTABLISHMENT.
   The rate charges to sanitary sewerage system consumers shall be collected
and shall be maintained for debt service, administration and other
miscellaneous overhead costs and shall be collected and maintained for the
operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment facilities.
Annually, a total of $10,000 is to be placed in a certificate of deposit for
the purpose of replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment plant.
The certificate of deposit will be made if the village has funds available.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.24 RATES BY CONSUMER CLASS.
   (A)   The rate charged to each consumer of each class shall be a rate based
on average water consumption during the winter months for the billing from
December 1 through January 1 for residential, multi-family. The minimum charge
for zero cubic feet is a $16 per month charge, and thereafter, all cubic feet
will be charged $0.75/100 per cubic foot. Commercial consumer’s and industrial
consumer’s minimum charge for zero cubic feet is at $16 per month, and
thereafter, all cubic feet will be charge at $0.85/100 per cubic foot.
   (B)   The funds collected from the Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
Fund shall be used only for operation, maintenance and replacement of the
wastewater treatment facilities. Any amounts left in this fund at the end of
the fiscal year must be carried over in this fund. The rates and charges for
operation, maintenance and replacement shall be reviewed annually for adequacy
and proportionality among users and adjustment made, if necessary.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.25 SURCHARGES.
   The village shall have the right to increase the operation, maintenance and
replacement rate when it is determined that the strength of a consumer’s
wastewater is significantly greater than other consumer’s. The village may
require any consumer, at his or her expense, to provide flow measurement and
sample analysis of his or her wastewater. All such surcharges shall be arrived
at by establishing a base rate per pound for biochemical oxygen demand and
suspended solids and comparing the consumer’s wastewater strength and volume to
the base rate.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.26 CONSUMERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   A consumer of the sanitary sewerage system for the village outside of
the corporate limits of the village shall pay a sewer administration rate of
$30 per month.
   (B)   Should the Village Board vote to provide said services to a customer
outside of the corporate limits, whether or not within the zoning jurisdiction
of the village, all costs of installation of the service shall be borne by the
customer.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.27 DETERMINATION OF PROPORTIONAL RATES.
   (A)   When, in the judgment of the Village Board of Trustees, the
application of the use charges hereinbefore set forth would not be proportional
when compared to all other consumers, the village may adjust said consumer’s
rate provided said consumer provides information, satisfactory to the village,
such that the consumer’s proportional use of the sewerage system can be
determined.
   (B)   It shall be the consumer’s responsibility to provide to the village a
satisfactory means of measuring wastewater flows and obtaining representative
samples of wastewater from the consumer.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.28 CONSUMERS WITH PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
   Consumers of the sanitary sewerage system having a private water supply
which is discharged into the sanitary sewerage system shall be charged at the
same rate as all other consumers, utilizing an average water use per capita as
a base.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.29 RATE SAVING CLAUSE.
   If, for any reason, any of the rates of any user hereinbefore set forth
should be invalid or unenforceable, the village shall be entitled to receive
and collect from such user a reasonable fee in relation to that charged of
other customers for the same service who are similarly situated.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
§ 54.30 FINDING OF EQUITABLE RATES.
   The Chairperson and the Village Board of Trustees find and determine that
the sewer use charges established by this chapter are just and equitable rates
and charges to be paid to the village for the use of such sanitary sewerage
system by each person, firm or corporation whose premises are served thereby.
(Ord. 672, passed 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 55: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Billing; notice of delinquency; discontinuance of service
   
55.02   Notice to disconnect service
   
55.03   Disputing discontinuance of service
   
55.04   Conference to dispute
   
55.05   Postponing discontinuance
   
55.06   Necessary disconnections or interruptions
   
55.07   Consumer application and deposit; exceptions
Rates and Fees
   
55.20   Rates generally
   
55.21   Rural Water District rates
Drought Emergency Contingency Plan
   
55.35   Contingency plan adopted
   
55.36   Stage one: water watch
   
55.37   State two: water warning
   
55.38   State three: water emergency
   
55.39   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Lien upon real estate, see §
54.07
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 BILLING; NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Village Clerk. The Utilities Superintendent shall read or cause to be read
water meters monthly between the first day and the third day of the month
during which service is used.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall direct the Village Clerk to charge
and collect from each customer for the amount of water consumed since the last
examination together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the Water
Department. Bills shall be disbursed by the Village Clerk by the first of each
month following the month in which the service was used and due by the twenty-
fifth of each month.
   (C)   Bills paid after the twenty-fifth day of the month shall have a
penalty charge added thereto in an amount set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk. Bills not paid by the
twenty-fifth day of the month following the month in which the service was used
shall be deemed delinquent. Any person having a delinquent bill for services
provided by the village is subject to discontinuance of such service.
   (D)   Upon being deemed delinquent as herein defined, the Village Clerk
shall give written notice to the consumer of such delinquency and shall demand
payment immediately. In the event the bill is not paid within seven days,
weekends and holidays excluded, after the sending of said notice, it shall be
discretionary with the Utilities Superintendent to cut off service at any time;
provided, if the delinquent consumer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be
the duty of the Village Clerk to notify the consumer by certified mail of the
proposed termination and to notify the Department of Health and Human Services.
The Utilities Superintendent shall assess an additional fee, set by resolution
of the Board of Trustees and on file at the office of the Village Clerk, in the
event that water is shut off to compensate the village for the additional hook-
up necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent consumer.
(Ord. 594, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 55.02 NOTICE TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   The notice shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
   (B)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
   (C)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
   (D)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or department
to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
   (E)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date, to
request a conference regarding any dispute over the proposed disconnection;
   (F)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service pending
the conclusion of the conference;
   (G)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate, which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within the
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
the subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. This
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from that filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (G) for each
incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
   (H)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for restoration
of service;
   (I)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan; and
   (J)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard.
(Ord. 594, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 55.03 DISPUTING DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of service by
notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets forth the reasons
for the dispute and the relief requested within five days of the date the
notice was mailed. If a statement has been made by the subscriber, a conference
shall be held before the municipality may discontinue services.
(Ord. 594, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 55.04 CONFERENCE TO DISPUTE.
   (A)   Upon notice to the employee designated by the utility of any request
for a conference by a domestic subscriber, the employee shall:
      (1)   Notify the domestic subscriber, in writing, of the time, place and
date scheduled for the conference; and
      (2)   Hold a conference within 14 days of the receipt of the domestic
subscriber’s request. Such conference shall be informal and shall not be
governed by the state’s Rules of Evidence. If the employer determines at the
conference that the domestic subscriber did not receive proper notice or was
denied any other right afforded under Neb. RS 70-1605 to 70-1615, when
applicable, the employer shall recess and continue the conference at such time
as the subscriber has been afforded his or her rights. Failure of a domestic
subscriber to attend a scheduled conference shall relieve the utility of any
further action prior to the discontinuance of service. If a domestic subscriber
contacts the utility prior to the scheduled conference and demonstrates that
failure to attend is for a legitimate reason, the utility shall make reasonable
effort to reschedule the conference.
   (B)   The employee of the utility shall, based solely on the evidence
presented at the hearing, affirm, reverse or modify any decision by the utility
involving a disputed bill which results in threatened termination of utility
service. The employee shall allow termination of utility service only as a
measure of last resort and after the utility has exhausted all other remedies
less drastic than termination. Any customer may appeal that decision to the
Village Board by filing a written request with the Village Clerk within five
days of mailing the decision of the utility employee. The appeal shall be
conducted in accordance with Neb. RS 70-1614 et seq.
(Ord. 594, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 55.05 POSTPONING DISCONTINUANCE.
   In determining whether just cause exists to postpone discontinuance of
utility service, the Board shall consider:
   (A)   The requirements of the village pursuant to bonding agreements;
   (B)   The size of the delinquency;
   (C)   The effort, if any, of the person who is delinquent to pay the
delinquency;
   (D)   The likelihood the delinquency will be paid within a reasonably short
time; and
   (E)   The likelihood future services will not be timely paid and will be
allowed to become delinquent.
(Ord. 594, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 55.06 NECESSARY DISCONNECTIONS OR INTERRUPTIONS.
   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Ord. 594, passed 8-11-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 55.07 CONSUMER APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring water service must make application
therefore to the Municipal Clerk. Every applicant shall give the Municipal
Clerk sufficient time to verify prior utility history with the applicant’s
former provider, if any.
   (B)   Utility services shall be connected within three days after receipt of
the deposit described below. Any applicant having a prior utility record that
is satisfactory and not delinquent shall be required to make a service deposit
in the amount of $25 for said service. Landlords who own more than two premises
within the municipality shall not be required to pay more than one deposit.
   (C)   Said deposit shall be refunded upon termination of the service at the
request of the applicant upon moving and vacating the premises if the utility
payments are not, at that time, in arrears.
   (D)   Water may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the
order of the Municipal Clerk.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
supply water service to non-residents. The municipal electrical system shall
not supply water services to any person or entity outside of the corporate
limits without special permission from the governing body; provided, that the
entire cost of wire, installation, and other expenses shall be paid by the
consumer.
(Ord. 694, passed 8-26-2024)
RATES AND FEES
§ 55.20 RATES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Customers of the Village Water Department, if inside the village
limits, shall be charged the following rates for the use of the water services.
Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file at the office of the
Village Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time during office hours.
   (B)   (1)   The minimum monthly charge schedule is as follows.
 
Minimum Monthly Charge Schedule
3/4-inch meter $28.75 per month
1-inch meter   $31.65 per month
1.5-inch meter $45.50 per month
2-inch meter   $59 per month
3-inch meter   $86.50 per month
4-inch meter   $114 per month
 
      (2)   The above minimum includes a $5 meter fee, overhead charges and 400
cubic feet. All overage over 400 cubic feet will be charged at $3.80/100 cubic
feet.
   (C)   Should the Village Board vote to provide said services to a customer
outside of the corporate limits, whether or not within the zoning jurisdiction
of the village, all costs of installation of said service shall be borne by the
customer. Said service shall be provided at a rate 15% higher than the above-
referenced rates for the service charge and usage.
(Ord. 671, passed 4-11-2022; Ord. 700, passed 4-14-2025)
§ 55.21 RURAL WATER DISTRICT RATES.
   The water rates for Rural Water Districts shall be as follows for the
current users.
   (A)   Schedule.
 
First 200,000 gallons     At 1.74 thousand gallons
Rest over 200,000 gallons At 1.74 thousand gallons
 
   (B)   Minimum charge. The minimum monthly charge schedule is $288.
(Ord. 626, passed 12-11-2017)
DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 55.35 CONTINGENCY PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The village shall address any short-term water shortage problems
through a series of stages based on conditions of supply and demand with
accompanying triggers, goals and actions. Each stage is more stringent in water
use than the previous stage since there will be a greater deterioration in
water supply conditions.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board is hereby authorized to implement the
appropriate conservation measures as set forth in this section when any of the
conditions have been reached which would qualify for any of the specific
stages. The Chairperson of the Board is given discretion to declare each
particular stage as deemed appropriate by the Chairperson of the Board by
reviewing the severity of the trigger conditions and other additional
information, and is further authorized to implement conservation measures
within the guidelines provided for each particular stage.
(Ord. 681, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 55.36 STAGE ONE: WATER WATCH.
   (A)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Groundwater levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels;
      (2)   Systems pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch; or
      (3)   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten the awareness of the
public of the water conditions and to maintain the integrity of the system.
   (C)   Management actions.
      (1)   Leaks will be repaired within 48 hours of detection.
      (2)   The village will monitor its use of water and will curtail
activities such as hydrant flushing.
   (D)   Regulation actions. The public will be informed through the local
media of the water watch and be asked to voluntarily reduce outdoor water use
and to efficiently use water for indoor purposes, for example, washing full
loads of clothing and/or dishes, limiting the length and frequency of showers
and checking for water leaks and the dripping of faucets, to prevent any
unnecessary use of water.
(Ord. 681, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 55.37 STATE TWO: WATER WARNING.
   (A)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Groundwater levels have fallen ten feet below normal seasonal
levels;
      (2)   Systems pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch;
      (3)   Plant operations are at 80% capacity for more than three
consecutive days; or
      (4)   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 20% and
to reduce overall weekly consumption by 10%.
   (C)   Management actions.
      (1)   Water supply will be monitored daily.
      (2)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
      (3)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
      (4)   The village will curtail its water usage, including the watering of
village grounds and washing of vehicles.
   (D)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions under Stage
One, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the Chairperson of
the Board.
      (1)   An odd/even lawn watering and outdoor water use system, not
including moderate watering of flowers and gardens, will be imposed on village
residents.
         (a)   Residents with odd-numbered addresses will water on Monday and
Thursday between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.; and
         (b)   Even-numbered addresses will water on Tuesday and Saturday
between 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
      (2)   The refilling of swimming pools will be limited to one day a week
after sunset.
      (3)   Excess water use charges for the usage of water over the amount
used in the winter will be imposed at a rate twice the normal rate of water
usage.
      (4)   Residents who wish to water a newly-established lawn must apply for
a permit from the Village Office. The cost for said non-refundable permit shall
be $100. Said permits are only allowed to be utilized when the village is in
Stage Two: Water Warning, and can be utilized daily, but only between the hours
of 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. Said permit shall be revoked if the village enters
Stage Three: Water Emergency.
      (5)   Wastes of water will be prohibited.
(Ord. 681, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 55.38 STATE THREE: WATER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Trigger. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Groundwater levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels;
      (2)   Systems pressure falls below 35 pounds per square inch;
      (3)   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of the
wells;
      (4)   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more than three
consecutive days; or
      (5)   Demand for one day is in excess of 500,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demand by 50% and to
reduce overall consumption by 25%.
   (C)   Education actions.
      (1)   The village will make news releases to local media describing the
current conditions and indicate the water supply outlook for the village.
      (2)   The village will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the emergency,
the status of the water supply and further actions which need to be taken.
   (D)   Management actions.
      (1)   The village water supplies will be monitored daily.
      (2)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
      (3)   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
      (4)   Pumpage at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
      (5)   The village will seek additional emergency supplies from other
users, the state or the federal government.
   (E)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions available
under Stage Two, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Chairperson and Board.
      (1)   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses which
require outdoor water use to operate.
      (2)   Wastes of water will be prohibited.
(Ord. 681, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 55.39 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event that any water consumer fails to comply with the regulatory
action taken by the village, then the Chairperson of the Board may direct the
immediate discontinuance of water service to the location which is not in
compliance with the restriction imposed. Water service may be resumed upon the
Chairperson of the Board being provided adequate evidence to show that
compliance has been instituted and that compliance will continue under the
restrictions imposed.
(Ord. 681, passed 2-27-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.03   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.06   Placement and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.07   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.08   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.09   Obedience to traffic-control devices; exceptions
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.11   Traffic officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Traffic Code, the following definitions and the
other definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 to 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic-control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual,
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic-control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic-control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the
purposes of travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
Traffic Code, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices
and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such
vehicles without the permission of the Board or its designated representative
or in a place, time or manner which has been prohibited by the Board shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The Board may further authorize the supervising official of any area
under its ownership or control to permit, control or prohibit operation of any
motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of any or
all types, electric bicycle, other powered vehicle, electric personal assistive
mobility device or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any portion of
any area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or, in case of
an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such vehicle where
prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger the peace and
safety of the public or so as to harm or destroy the natural features or human-
made features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Recreational vehicles, see
Chapter 74
§ 70.03 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic-control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.04 of this chapter;
      (8)   Regulate the operation of bicycles and require the registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate the operation of electric personal assistive mobility
devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the state’s Rules of
the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate the use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic, except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate the use of heavily traveled highways by any
class or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
national system of interstate and defense highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(22), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power-producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss.
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations, except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall not erect or maintain any traffic-control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17) or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic-control devices giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway, by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The Board shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The Board of Trustees shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly
contrary to the state’s Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.06 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic-control devices
upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to
carry out the provisions of this Traffic Code or to regulate, warn or guide
traffic. All such traffic-control devices erected pursuant to this Traffic Code
shall conform with the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers, to enforce the provisions of the state’s Rules of the Road and
this Traffic Code, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits,
and any other state or village law regulating the operation of vehicles or the
use of the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this Traffic Code, or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar village ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle, and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle, and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the state statutes, the rules and regulations of the Director of
Motor Vehicles or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.08 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road or this Traffic Code or of a person whom such officer reasonably
believes has violated the Rules or this Traffic Code.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s Rules
of the Road or this Traffic Code unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle in the Rules and this Traffic Code.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this Traffic Code for which traffic-
control devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if,
at the time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant
person. Whenever any provision of the Rules or this Traffic Code does not state
that traffic-control devices are required, such provision shall be effective
even though no devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic-control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this Traffic Code, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic-control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this
Traffic Code and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules
or this Traffic Code unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the state’s Rules of the Road and
this Traffic Code, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator
of the law or when responding to, but not when returning from, a fire alarm,
may:
      (1)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this Traffic Code, and disregard regulations governing direction of
movement or turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections Neb. RS 60-
6,288 to 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.11 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees or the village police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may
have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this Traffic Code with respect to
particular offenses, a violation of any provision of this Traffic Code shall
constitute a traffic infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this Traffic Code for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall
be fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period;
and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a one-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 to 60-694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.02   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.03   Interference with traffic-control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.04   Signs, markers, devices or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.05   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
   
71.06   Jake braking
   
71.07   Exhibition driving
   
71.08   Driving on flood-control dikes
Speed Limits
   
71.20   Basic rule
   
71.21   Maximum limits
   
71.22   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.23   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.24   Near schools
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction, may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or specific
lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times
or at such times as shall be indicated by traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection, or if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device, any railroad
sign or signal or any part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic-control devices, traffic surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter or
knock down any sign, traffic-control device or traffic-surveillance device.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly
authorized representative of the Department of Transportation, the county or
the village, to remove any sign, traffic-control device or traffic-surveillance
device placed along a highway for traffic control, warning or informational
purposes by official action of the Department, county or village.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a sign or device
which has been removed in violation of this division (C).
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter,
inclusive of the stud-casing, with an average protrusion beyond the tread
surface of not more than seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and
April 1, except that school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles
shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the
year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The village may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing
the operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks
or farm tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
§ 71.06 JAKE BRAKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
municipality to make, or cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any
mechanical devices operated by compressed air and used for the purpose of
assisting braking on any semi-tractor, commonly referred to as engine braking.
The Village Board shall cause notices to be posted, or erect signs indicating
such prohibition. Any person convicted as having violated this section shall be
punished as provided by §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle, meaning any self-propelled vehicle,
upon streets, alleys, on property owned by the village, or on other public
property within the village limits, including public school property, in such
squealing of tires, rear skidding, sliding or swaying of such motor vehicle,
shall be guilty of exhibition driving.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2000) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 DRIVING ON FLOOD-CONTROL DIKES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, including snowmobiles, ATVs or
motorcycles, upon any flood-control dike owned by the village. This section
does not apply to duly-authorized persons and vehicles.
(Ord. passed 12-14-1998) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.20 of this chapter, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-
6,187; 60-6,188; 60-6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds
unless reduced pursuant to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless-surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant
to §
71.23 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems necessary to
give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to division (A)
or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limit schedules, see
Chapter 74
§ 71.22 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees may conduct
an investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part
of a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the Board shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
Board and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive evidence of
the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge or
structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place or part of such highway, which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the Board of
Trustees shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits
as the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic
investigations, except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are
part of the state highway system in the village shall be effective without the
approval of the Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph, and there
shall be no limit on the difference between adjacent speed limits for
increasing speed limits along a highway.
   (D)   When the Department or the Board determines by an investigation that
certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187; 60-6,305
and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.21 and
71.22 of this chapter and Neb. RS 60-6,187; 60-6,305 and 60-6,313, or set
pursuant to this section, §
71.22 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the Board may
restrict the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective
jurisdiction and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.24 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum
speed limit established for any highway or freeway as set out in §§
71.20 to 71.24 of this chapter is guilty of a traffic infraction and upon
conviction shall be fined:
         (a)   For traveling one to five mph over the authorized speed limit:
$10;
         (b)   For traveling over five mph but not over ten mph over the
authorized speed limit: $25;
         (c)   For traveling over ten mph but not over 15 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $75;
         (d)   For traveling over 15 mph but not over 20 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $125;
         (e)   For traveling over 20 mph but not over 35 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $200; and
         (f)   For traveling over 35 mph over the authorized speed limit: $300.
      (2)   (a)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be
doubled if the violation occurs within a maintenance, repair or construction
zone established pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (B)(2), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
               a.   i.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or
moving signs as being under maintenance, repair or construction;
                  ii.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance,
repair or construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,188; and
                  iii.   Within such portion of a highway where road
construction workers are present.
               b.   The MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair or construction zone has ended.
      (3)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
(Neb. RS 60-682.01)
   (C)   Any person violating §
71.04(B) or (C) shall be guilty of an offense and shall be assessed liquidated
damages in the amount of the value of the sign, traffic-control device or
traffic-surveillance device and the cost of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130)
   (D)   On conviction of violating §
71.07, a person shall, for each offense, be fined in the sum of not less than
$25, nor more than $100.
   (E)   Any person convicted of violating §
71.08 shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $100 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 12-14-1998; Ord. passed 6-12-2000)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   Roadway outside business or residential district
   
72.03   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.04   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.05   Intersections
   
72.06   Alleys
   
72.07   Truck, semi-trailer and tractor trailer parking and loading
   
72.08   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.09   Current registration
   
72.10   Time limits
   
72.11   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.12   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.13   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
72.14   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.15   Painting of curbs
   
72.16   Handicapped parking
   
72.17   Maximum limit
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.30   Tickets
   
72.31   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General authority, see
Ch. 70
   Parking, see §§
151.095 through
151.097
   Restricted Parking, see
Ch. 74, Schd. II
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or
prohibit stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 ROADWAY OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park or leave such vehicle off of such
part of a highway, but in any event, an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer, except
that when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop or stand on
the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and projecting
parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in no event
shall such parking, standing or stopping upon the shoulder of a freeway exceed
12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance or authorized Department of
Transportation or local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any
vehicle upon any bridge, highway or structure which is located above or below
or crosses over or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road
thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such a manner and to such an extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D)
above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
the Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic-control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the Board of Trustees to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 TRUCK, SEMI-TRAILER AND TRACTOR TRAILER PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a truck over 10,000 pounds, a semi-trailer or
a tractor trailer combination to be dollied down, parked or off-loaded from its
tractor on any village property or in a residentially zoned area, except
between 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Any vehicle found violating this section shall
be ticketed. The owner and driver, if a separate person from the owner, of any
vehicle found violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined pursuant to §
72.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who, due to emergency or mechanical failure, feels that he
or she may come into violation of this section shall immediately notify the
County Sheriff’s Office. The County Sheriff’s Office shall investigate, and if
such deputy finds that there is an emergency or mechanical breakdown, they may
issue a warning in writing, with a copy to be filed with the Village Clerk. The
owner of the violating vehicle shall endorse a receipt of the warning. The
owner of the violating vehicle shall then have three days to remove said
vehicle. If such vehicle is not moved within three days, said owner and vehicle
driver are subject to the penalties as set out in §
72.99 of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to
recreational vehicles.
(Ord. 665, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public
place within the village any vehicle displayed for sale.
   (B)   Except when necessary due to a breakdown or other emergency, no person
shall adjust or repair, or race the motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle
while standing on the highways of the village.
   (C)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 72.10 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Village Board is authorized to establish snow emergency routes
upon any street or highway in the village limits and may place appropriate
signs, marks, lines, signals or other traffic-control devices, indicating the
existence of the snow emergency routes, which shall include, but not be limited
to, Main Street, from First Street to Sixth Street.
   (B)   The Village Maintenance Supervisor shall publicly announce each
declaration of a snow emergency made pursuant to this section by means of
broadcast or telecast from broadcasting stations with a normal operating range
covering the village. Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the
Maintenance Supervisor, including the time it became or will become effective
and shall specify the streets or areas affected.
   (C)   The Village Maintenance Supervisor shall declare the parking
prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, effective immediately upon
announcement or at a later specified time.
   (D)   The Village Maintenance Supervisor may order a parking prohibition on
all snow emergency routes by declaring that an emergency exists on the basis of
falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or other weather conditions making it
necessary that parking on a snow emergency route be prohibited for snow plowing
or other purposes. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to
remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency route during a
parking prohibition affecting such streets. Penalties for violation shall be
those set forth in §
72.99.
   (E)   Law enforcement officers are authorized to remove or have removed a
vehicle from a street when one or more or the following occur:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which a parking
prohibition in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a snow emergency route on which there is
a parking prohibition in effect and the person who is operating the vehicle
does not appear to be removing it; and
      (3)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fees shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.12 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an overall length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition, and
effectively setting the brakes thereon, and when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the Board of Trustees, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the Board adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the parking
or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain facilities
or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or location
shall be painted in such manner as directed by the Board to indicate such
regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board or its agent to cause the curb space
to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this chapter or as
specified by the Board. The marking or designating of portions of highways
where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by
the village through its proper officers, at the direction of the Board. No
person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any manner set aside, or
attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the Board.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use of
disabled persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing license plates
issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311.14, such other
handicapped persons, as certified by the governing body, whose vehicles display
the identification as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and such
other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body, which display such
identification. All such permits shall be displayed in the operator’s area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle’s dashboard or its equivalent. Whenever
the governing body so designates a parking space, it shall be indicated by a
sign which is in conformance with the 19th addition of the Federal Highway
Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and
Highways. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
space.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from physically
handicapped persons or their parent, legal guardian or foster parent for a
permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor
vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in those spaces
provided for by this section. For the purpose of this section, PHYSICALLY
HANDICAPPED PERSONS shall mean visually handicapped persons and those
permanently physically handicapped persons who have definite walking problems
to such an extent that walking is impractical, impossible, extremely painful or
generally detrimental to one’s health, including those persons who have
respiratory problems which incapacitate their walking, any individual who has
permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or more limbs and
disabled persons as defined in Neb. RS 60-311.14. VISUALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS
shall mean those persons using the white cane or guide dog. Persons applying
for a permit shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal Clerk
by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the Municipal Clerk that he or she is handicapped. The Municipal Clerk may
require medical certificates and proof of a handicapped condition. Such
application shall be forwarded to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting physically handicapped
persons to park in those spaces provided for by this section, if the motor
vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of physically handicapped
person. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle for which
it was issued is being used for the transportation of physically handicapped
person. Persons applying for permits pursuant to this section shall apply for a
permit for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of physically
handicapped persons and shall complete such forms as are provided to the
Municipal Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation
of physically handicapped persons. Such applications shall be forwarded to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (D)   The permit shall be a card not less than four inches by four inches in
size constructed so that it may be easily and conspicuously displayed from a
vehicle’s rearview mirror and on which is prominently displayed the date of
expiration, the internationally accepted wheelchair symbol, which symbol is a
representation of a person seated in a wheelchair surrounded by a border six
units wide by seven units high, and an identifying number. on the front of the
card. The color of the permit issued to handicapped or disabled persons or for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons shall be white on blue.
The handicapped or disabled person shall be a special distinguishing color as
determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles. The name, address, phone
number, date of birth and age of the handicapped person or disabled person to
whom issued shall appear on the reverse side. The name, address and phone
number of the party to whom issued and the license plate number of the motor
vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear on the reverse side of the
permit if such permit is issued for a motor vehicle used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. No permit shall be issued to any person for any motor vehicle
if any valid handicapped parking permit has been issued to such person or for
such motor vehicle if such permit has been suspended pursuant to this section.
   (E)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles
without cost if the original permit is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such
duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which the
original permit was issued.
   (F)   All permits authorized under this section shall be issued for a period
ending January 1 of the fourth year following the date of issuance. A permit
fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2.50 of which shall be retained by
the Municipal Clerk and $0.50 of which shall be forwarded to the Department of
Motor Vehicles.
   (G)   Permits issued under this section shall not be transferable, and shall
be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which
issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. Use by any other
person, for any other motor vehicle or for any other purpose shall be cause for
suspension of such permit for a period of six months. At the expiration of such
period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
   (H)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, as the case may
be, and the municipality when providing on-street parking or owning, operating
or providing an off-street parking facility, may cause the removal, from a
stall or space designated exclusively for disabled persons, other handicapped
persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of physically handicapped
persons, of any vehicle not displaying proper identification or one of the
distinguishing license plates specified in this section, if there is posted
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a towing zone.
Anyone parking in an on-street parking space which has been designated
exclusively for handicapped persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped persons or in any so designated parking space in any off-street
parking facility owned or operated by the municipality without properly
displaying the proper identification, shall be guilty of a traffic infraction
as defined in Neb. RS 39-602, and shall be subject to the penalties and
procedures set forth in Neb. RS 39-6,122.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 through 18-1742
§ 72.17 MAXIMUM LIMIT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall park any vehicle, motorized or otherwise, on any
street, alley, public way or portion thereof, of the village and leave said
vehicle unattended for a period longer than 72 hours. During periods of time
when snow is falling and/or snow has accumulated on the streets, and it is
necessary for the village to remove said snow from the village streets, alleys
and public ways, the abovementioned period of time allowing for the parking of
vehicles, motorized or otherwise, on said streets, by any person or by the
owner of the vehicle, shall be no longer than 14 hours.
      (2)   No person shall park any vehicle, motorized or otherwise, on any
private property within a residential district as described by the current
zoning ordinance for a period longer than 45 days. This section shall not apply
to any vehicle stored in an enclosure or garage. An unattended vehicle shall be
considered to be any vehicle, motorized or otherwise, that has not been moved
in any respect.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.30 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of nonmoving traffic regulations contained
in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 72.31 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off of the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   The owner and driver, if a separate person from the owner, of
any vehicle found violating §
72.07 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
pursuant to the following fine schedule:
         (a)   First offense: $50;
         (b)   Second offense: $75;
         (c)   Third offense: $100;
         (d)   Fourth offense: $125; and
         (e)   Fifth offense and subsequent offenses: Not less than $125 nor
more than $500.
      (2)   Any and all subsequent offenses, in order to merit a fine as
prescribed above, must be committed within a 12-month period following the date
of the first offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
72.17 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 665, passed - -)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain Vehicles (ATVs) and Utility-Type Vehicles
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Subject to motor vehicle rules and laws
   
73.03   Operation requirements; exemptions
   
73.04   Equipment requirements
   
73.05   License; insurance
   
73.06   Registration; fee
   
73.07   Accidents
   
73.08   Violations
Golf Cars
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Subject to motor vehicle rules and laws
   
73.22   Operation requirements; exemptions
   
73.23   Equipment requirements
   
73.24   License; insurance; registration; fee
   
73.25   Accidents
   
73.26   Violations
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVS) AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more non-highway tires; and
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers, or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 74 inches in width or less;
      (2)   Is not more than 180 inches, including bumper, in length;
      (3)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; and
      (4)   Travels on four or more non-highway tires.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 73.02 SUBJECT TO MOTOR VEHICLE RULES AND LAWS.
   Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle, as defined by the state
statutes or this code, which are operated within the jurisdiction of the
village are hereby declared to be a motor vehicle and subject to all of the
motor vehicle Rules of the Road and traffic laws as defined in either the state
statutes or this code.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 73.03 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated in
accordance with this subchapter within the corporate limits of the village
between the hours of sunrise and sunset, subject to the restrictions herein on
a highway other than a controlled-access highway with more than two marked
traffic lanes.
   (B)   The crossing of a highway other than a controlled-access highway with
more than two marked traffic lanes shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle
or a utility-type vehicle without complying with §§
73.04 and
73.05 of this chapter only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a good
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operation yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (C)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with §§
73.04 and
73.05 of this chapter in parades which have been authorized by the state or any
department, board, commission or political subdivision of the state.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall only be operated
with the headlight and taillight on, and with a triangular day-glow colored
bicycle safety flag which is at least 30 square inches that extends at least
five feet above the ground attached to the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   Said vehicle shall have a minimum seat height of 26 inches.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 LICENSE; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle in
accordance with this subchapter shall have a valid Class O operator’s license
or a farm permit as provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126, and shall have liability
insurance for said vehicle while operating it on municipal streets/highways.
   (B)   Upon the request of any police officer, the operator of said vehicle
shall provide proof of insurance within five days of said request.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 REGISTRATION; FEE.
   (A)   Any owner of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle housed and
operated within municipal limits in accordance with this subchapter shall
register said vehicle with the Village Clerk annually in January for each
calendar year. There will be an initial fee of $35 and an annual fee of $10
thereafter.
   (B)   Applicants will be required to show proof of insurance and proof of
qualifying seat height of the vehicle in order to register said vehicle.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 73.07 ACCIDENTS.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or the injury of any
person which requires treatment of the person by a physician, the operator of
an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle involved in the accident shall
give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 VIOLATIONS.
   If an individual operates an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle in
violation of this subchapter, the penalty shall be that set forth in §
70.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 660, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
GOLF CARS
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CAR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 mph, has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200
pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds, has a maximum
passenger capacity of not more than four persons, is designed and manufactured
for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational purposes and is
not being operated within the boundaries of a golf course.
   ROAD. A public way for the purposes of vehicular travel, including the
entire area within the right-of-way.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. A public way for the purposes of vehicular travel in a
city or village, and includes the entire area within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 647, passed 11-9-2020)
§ 73.21 SUBJECT TO MOTOR VEHICLE RULES AND LAWS.
   Every golf car vehicle, as defined by the state statutes or this subchapter,
which is operated within the jurisdiction of the village is hereby declared to
be a motor vehicle and subject to all of the motor vehicle Rules of the Road
and traffic laws as defined in either the state statutes or this code.
(Ord. 647, passed 11-9-2020)
§ 73.22 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Golf car vehicles may be operated on streets and highways within the
corporate limits of the village only if the operator and the vehicle comply
with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Golf car vehicles may be operated only between the hours of
sunrise and sunset and on streets with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
The operator shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
      (2)   A golf car vehicle shall not be operated at any time on any state
or federal highway, but may be operated upon such a highway in order to cross a
portion of the highway system which intersects a street only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the highway and at a place no obstruction prevents a quick and
safe crossing;
         (b)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         (c)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with a street or road, as applicable.
   (C)   Golf car vehicles may be operated without complying with division (B)
above and §§
73.23 and
73.24 of this chapter on streets and highways in parades which have been
authorized by the state or any department, board, commission or political
subdivision of the state.
   (D)   Golf car vehicles shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted.
(Ord. 647, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.23 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Said vehicle shall have a minimum seat height of 26 inches. Said vehicle
shall be operated with a triangular day-glow colored bicycle safety flag which
is at least 30 square inches that extends at least five feet above the ground
attached to the rear of the vehicle.
(Ord. 647, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.24 LICENSE; INSURANCE; REGISTRATION; FEE.
   Any person operating a golf car vehicle as authorized in §
73.22(A) of this chapter shall have:
   (A)   A valid Class O operator’s license;
   (B)   (1)   Liability insurance coverage for the golf car vehicle while
operating such vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating any of
these vehicles shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace
officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
      (2)   The liability insurance coverage shall be subject to limits,
exclusive of interest and costs, as follows:
         (a)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or the
death of one person in any one accident and, subject to such limit for one
person, $50,000 because of bodily injury to or the death of two or more persons
in any one accident; and
         (b)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of injury to or the
destruction of property of others in any one accident.
   (C)   Any owner of a golf car vehicle housed and operated within the
municipal limits in accordance with this subchapter shall register said vehicle
annually in January with the Village Clerk. There will be an initial fee of $35
and an annual fee of $10 thereafter. Applicants will be required to show proof
of insurance and qualifying seat height of the vehicle in order to register the
vehicle.
(Ord. 647, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.25 ACCIDENTS.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of a golf car vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 647, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.26 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter shall be subject to
the penalty set forth in §
70.99 of this code.
(Ord. 647, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Restricted parking
   
III.   Handicapped parking
   
IV.   Stop and yield intersections
   
V.   Trucks, trailers and tractors
   
VI.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Fifteen mph speed limit areas.
      (1)   There is hereby established a provision to authorize the erection
of three 15 mph speed limit signs for the following locations within the
village limits, to-wit:
         (a)   Two signs on Whitney Street between Sixth Street and Norris
Avenue; and
         (b)   One sign on Maple Street between Sixth Street and Norris Avenue.
      (2)   The Village Utilities Superintendent was directed to erect the
appropriate signs at these locations.
   (B)   Fourth Street (Highway #9).
      (1)   (a)   There is hereby establish a provision for the control of
speed on Fourth Street (Highway #9) when proceeding north from Industrial Road
to Willis Street in the village.
         (b)   There is hereby established a provision for the control of speed
on Fourth Street (Highway #9) when proceeding south from Willis Street to
Industrial Road in the village.
      (2)   The speed limits in both directions on Fourth Street (Highway #9)
shall by 45 mph from the south corporate limes (at Industrial Road to Logan
Street), 30 mph from Logan Street to Willis Street and 40 mph from Willis
Street to the north corporate limits (790 feet north of Willis Street).
      (3)   (a)   There is hereby established a provision for the control of
speed on Industrial Road from Highway #9 on the east to the village limits on
the west.
         (b)   There is hereby established a provision for the control of speed
on One Mill Road (being Slaughter Street extended southward) from the
intersection of One Mill Road with Industrial Road on the north and the village
limits on the south.
         (c)   The speed limits on both of the above streets shall be 40 mph.
         (d)   The Utilities Superintendent is hereby directed to erect the
appropriate signs at these locations.
      (4)   Highway #9, specifically:
 
From northern village limits to intersection of Willis Street 40 mph
From Willis Street to McCabe Street                           30 mph
From McCabe Street to Elwood Street                           35 mph
From intersection of Elwood Street to southern village limits 45 mph
 
      (5)   The state’s Department of Roads was requested to erect appropriate
signs at these locations.
   (C)   Main Street (Highway #94).
      (1)   The speed limit in both directions on Main Street (Highway #94)
shall be 25 mph from Fourth Street (Highway #9) to the east corporate limits
(110 feet west of the bridge over Logan Creek).
      (2)   The state’s Department of Roads was requested to erect appropriate
signs at these locations.
   (D)   Twenty-five mph. The following streets shall have 25 mph speed limit
signs erected:
      (1)   Slaughter Street, as it intersects with Elwood Street; and
      (2)   Jake Street, as it intersects with Industrial Road.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 4-10-2009; Ord. 609, passed 12-14-2015; Ord. 685,
passed 4-24-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board authorizes the erection of five-minute parking
signs for the following location within the village limits, to wit: the south
side of McCabe Street between Fourth Street and the alley between Third Street
and Fourth Street.
      (2)   The Village Utilities Superintendent was directed to erect the
appropriate signs at this location.
   (B)   (1)   A ten-minute parking zone shall be established at the
northernmost parking spot, west of the northernmost parking spot west of the
Pioneer Senior Center on 5th Street, where 5th Street intersects with Main
Street.
      (2)   The Village Maintenance Superintendent shall cause an appropriate
signal to be erected to notify the public of the ten-minute parking zone at
this location.
      (3)   Violation of this division (B) shall be punished as set forth
elsewhere in this traffic code.
   (C)   The governing body has designated the following area as “no parking
zones:”
      (1)   The west curb of Norris Avenue from Earl Street, north to Maple
Street, excepting the south 100 feet between Logan Street and Maple Street,
where ten-minute parking will be allowed;
      (2)   The west curb of Thurston Avenue from Lloyd Street, north to
Whitney Street;
      (3)   The west curb of Carns Avenue from Lloyd Street, north to Whitney
Street;
      (4)   The west curb of Slaughter Avenue from Elwood Street, north to
Whitney Street;
      (5)   The north curb of Whitney Street from Norris Avenue to Sixth
Street;
      (6)   The south curb of Main Street from Norris Avenue, east to Sixth
Street;
      (7)   The east curb of Third Street from Main Street, north to the alley
running east and west between Main Street and Ivan Street;
      (8)   Both the east curb and west curb, respectively, on Fourth Street,
extending both north and south from Main Street a distance of 90 feet on either
side of said Main Street from an imaginary line running directly in line east
and west with the north and south curbs of Main Street at the intersection of
Main Street and Fourth Street; further that the north curb and south curb,
respectively, on Main Street, extending both east and west from 4th Street, a
distance of 30 feet on either side of said 4th Street from an imaginary line
running directly in line north and south with the east and west curb of 4th
Street at the intersection of 4th Street and Main Street; and
      (9)   That portion of the west curb of 3rd Street, between a point 20
feet north from an imaginary line intersecting this street and directly in line
with the north curb of Main Street and that portion of the west curb of 3rd
Street between a point 65 feet south from an imaginary line intersecting this
street and directly in line with the south curb point of the alley located one
block north of Main Street.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 12-15-2008; Ord. 602, passed 6-8-2015) Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   The Village Board acknowledges the necessity of providing handicapped
parking stalls for disabled patrons in the village. Therefore, the Village
Board hereby declares that one handicapped parking stall shall be established
at each of the following locations:
      (1)   Village Office;
      (2)   House Memorial Library; and
      (3)   Fire Hall.
   (B)   The Village Maintenance Supervisor was directed to erect appropriate
signage and mark the appropriate spaces at each such location.
(Ord. 588, passed 5-13-2013)
SCHEDULE IV. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Street Location Type of Sign Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location                 Type of Sign     Ord. No. Date Passed
                 At both exits of the
                 swimming pool parking
                lot where they intersect Stop             -        - -
                 with Carnes Street and
                 Thurston Avenue
                 Exit of Logan Valley
                Sales Industrial site,   Stop             -        4-12-2004
                 as it intersects with
                 Industrial Road
5th Street       At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 McCabe Street
                 On the north and south
Carnes Street    where Carnes Street      Stop             -        - -
                 intersects with Earl
                 Street
                 Signs placed on Elwood
                 Street approaching the
Elwood Street    intersection with 6th    Stop             -        - -
                 Street, from the east
                 and from the west
                 On the southwest side of
Elwood Street    the street, as it        Stop             -        4-14-2008
                 intersects with
                 Slaughter Avenue
                 East and west at the
Elwood Street    intersection with 5th    Yield            -        - -
                 Street
Elwood Street    At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 Norris Avenue
                 From the north and south
Fifth Street     at the intersection with Stop             -        - -
                 Whitney Street
                 At the intersection with
Ivan Street      Slaughter Avenue coming  Stop             -        - -
                 from the east
Jake Street      As it intersects with    Children at Play -        4-10-2009
                 Industrial Road
Logan Street     At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 Norris Avenue
                 East and west at the
Maple Street     intersection with First  Stop             -        - -
                 Street
Maple Street     At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 2nd Street
                 As it intersects with
McCabe Street    Slaughter Avenue from    Stop             -        - -
                 the east
                 From the east and west
McCabe Street    at the intersection with Stop             -        - -
                 First Street
McCabe Street    At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 6th Street
McCabe Street    At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 2nd Street
                 North and south at the
Second Street    intersection with        Yield            -        - -
                 Whitney Street
Slaughter Street As it intersects with    Children at Play -        4-10-2009
                 Elwood Street
Valley Street    At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 Norris Avenue
                 From the east and west
Whitney Street   where Whitney Street     Stop             -        - -
                 intersects with First
                 Street
Whitney Street   At the intersection with Yield            -        - -
                 Carnes Street
 
SCHEDULE V. TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND TRACTORS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a truck over
7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight on Slaughter Avenue within the village
limits.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above restriction, nothing in this division (A)
shall prevent delivery vans, trash pickup vehicles or other customary service
vehicles from entering Slaughter Avenue to serve residences located on
Slaughter Avenue.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a truck over 10,000 pounds, a semi-
trailer or a tractor trailer combination to be dollied down, parked or off-
loaded from its tractor on any village property or in a residential zone,
except between 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., without a permit. Any vehicle found
violating this section shall be ticketed. The owner and driver, if a separate
person from the owner, of any vehicle found violating this division (B) shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant to the following fine
schedule:
 
First offense                         $50
Second offense                        $75
Third offense                         $100
Fourth offense                        $125
Fifth offense and subsequent offenses No less than $125, nor more than $500
 
      (2)   Any and all subsequent offenses, in order to merit a fine as
prescribed above must be committed within a 12-month period following the date
of the first offense. Permits may be issued by the village office for
emergencies, mechanical breakdown or good cause shown. Any person who, due to
emergency, mechanical failure or for good reason shown, feels that he or she
may come into violation of this division (B) and wishes to be exempted
therefrom and is unable to obtain a permit from the village office because the
office is closed, shall immediately notify the village police. The village
police officers shall investigate and if such officer finds that there is an
emergency, mechanical breakdown or good cause shown, they may issue a warning
in writing with a copy to be filed with the Village Clerk. The owner of the
violating vehicle shall endorse a receipt of the warning. The owner of the
violating vehicle shall then have three days to remove said vehicle. If such
vehicle is not moved within three days, said owner and vehicle are subject to
the penalties as set out above. Nothing in this division (B) shall be construed
to apply to recreational vehicles.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street       Location                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Maple Street Traffic is allowed in a westerly direction -        - -
             only from 6th Street to Norris Avenue
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Parks and recreational facilities; operation and funding
   
90.02   Parks and recreational facilities; injury to property
   
90.03   Closing times for recreation facilities
§ 90.01 PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for
park purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the village
treasury and shall constitute the park and recreation fund of the village. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements; for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks; for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams; and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a board of park commissioners or a
board of park and recreation commissioners, when such board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the park fund or park and recreation fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such board, and warrants against the
fund shall be drawn by the chairperson of the board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the Village Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase, as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or park board shall at once be
extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or park board shall
have the power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired; and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public; and to charge admission thereto during such closing, either by
the village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing the same. They may
provide suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or
ordinances, and the police power of the village shall be at once extended over
the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The park board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 to 17-952
§ 90.02 PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any village park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.03 CLOSING TIMES FOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a closing time for the village park,
swimming pool, sand volleyball court, and new ball park complex, including the
basketball courts located in the village park for 11:00 p.m. each day of the
week.
   (B)   In the event of a scheduled activity at any of the above facilities
through the Pender Summer Rec Organization or other organizations reserving the
facility through the Village Clerk’s office, the closing time shall be one hour
after the schedule activity ceases, if the activity ceases after 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
   
91.03   County Health Board
Nuisances
   
91.15   Purpose
   
91.16   Nuisance defined
   
91.17   Nuisance officer
   
91.18   Owner/occupant responsibility
   
91.19   Identifying nuisances
   
91.20   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances
   
91.21   Enforcement procedures generally
   
91.22   Administrative procedure
   
91.23   Penal court enforcement procedure
   
91.24   Civil court procedure
   
91.25   Expenses; payment; levies
Fireworks and Firecrackers
   
91.40   Usage and sale restrictions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous dogs; prohibited breeds, see
Chapter 93
   Offenses against public health and safety, see
Chapter 133
   Rabies, see
Chapter 93
   Unsafe buildings, see
Chapter 150
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto, and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports, as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees,
as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the village. It
shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-208
§ 91.03 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 PURPOSE.
   The village, by this subchapter, defines its authority to:
   (A)   Define, regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances;
   (B)   Declare what shall be a nuisance for its jurisdiction; and
   (C)   Provide services to abate the same for the health and sanitation of
the village.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.16 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   (A)   A nuisance, generally defined, consists of doing any unlawful act, or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or
      (7)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   A nuisance specifically defined includes, but is not limited to, the
maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting, or any of the
following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things, of:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors or polluted
air from any source that is injurious or dangerous to human health and safety;
      (3)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
      (4)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (5)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
      (6)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
      (7)   Hauling any garbage, waste or refuse matter through the streets,
alleys and public ways, except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a
way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
      (8)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste, in a place and
manner approved by the village;
      (9)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (10)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which is so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
      (11)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure,
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
      (12)   All places used or maintained as junk yards or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (13)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (14)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
      (15)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
      (16)   Storing, accumulating, keeping, placing or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled, personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery
and equipment;
      (17)   (a)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is
inoperable, wrecked, junked or partially dismantled and remaining longer than
45 days on private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed
building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when necessary to the lawful operation of such business
enterprise (such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer or farm
implement dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises on which
said vehicle is located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and
safe condition.
         (b)   “Vehicle” is defined by Neb. RS 60-136: a “motor vehicle, all-
terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle, minibike, trailer or semitrailer.”
“Properly registered” means as required by state statutes; manufactured car
cover language: the number of vehicles allowed to be stored on a property under
a manufactured car cover totals: two;
      (18)   Lots, pieces of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys with
excessive growth (growth in excess of ten inches) of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation as defined in Neb. RS 17-563; and
      (19)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.17 NUISANCE OFFICER.
   The village shall appoint an individual or organization to identify and
enforce the abatement of nuisances within the village. Said individual or
organization shall be identified as the “Nuisance Officer,” and said
appointment shall be identified by resolution of the village.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 91.18 OWNER/OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits or
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village shall keep said real estate
free from nuisances; except to the extent that conflicting procedures are
otherwise provided, the procedures in §§
91.19 and
91.20 shall apply to nuisance abatement procedures.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 IDENTIFYING NUISANCES.
   (A)   The Village Board may identify suspected nuisances, in which case, the
Village Clerk shall, upon direction of the Village Board, notify the Nuisance
Officer of the suspected location, person or persons in violation of any
provision of this subchapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
   (B)   The village may request that the Nuisance Officer audit the village
for nuisances in the village as defined by this code. The Nuisance Officer
shall then view the area for any violations of the nuisances of the village.
The Nuisance Officer shall not go upon private property for said audit unless
granted permission by the resident/owner of suspected property.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 91.20 CONFIRMING, DOCUMENTING AND PRESENTING NUISANCES.
   (A)   The Nuisance Officer shall identify and confirm that, in his or her
opinion, a nuisance exists as defined by federal, state or village law.
   (B)   Upon confirming a nuisance appears to exist, the Nuisance Officer
shall document said nuisance with photographs, a report and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The Nuisance Officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners, and if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists. The Nuisance
Officer shall then present this information to the Board of Trustees at a
regular or special meeting for its confirmation that a nuisance exists.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 91.21 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Once a nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is brought to the
Board of Trustees by the Village Nuisance Officer or the Board of Health, the
Board of Trustees then may declare by resolution a nuisance, health and/or
sanitation violation.
   (B)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation provisions may be enforced by:
      (1)   Village administrative procedures;
      (2)   Penal prosecutions through the courts; or
      (3)   Civil procedures in the courts.
   (C)   Any of these procedures, or any combination of these procedures, may
be used to enforce the nuisance, health and/or sanitation provisions of the
village.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 91.22 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   The village may proceed with abatement of the nuisance, sanitation and/or
health violation with or without court involvement after the following
procedure is followed.
   (A)   After a nuisance is declared, the Village Clerk notifies the Nuisance
Officer to serve notice upon the violator.
   (B)   The Nuisance Officer shall draft and serve notice, which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date the abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
Board of Trustees as described in division (D) below.
   (C)   The notice shall be given to each owner or the owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village or the county of the village, and by conspicuously posting the notice
on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The
date of service is determined by the latter of certified mail receipt, personal
service or publication date.
   (D)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing a
hearing before the Board of Trustees within five days after notice of violation
is served, received or published.
   (E)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time period,
the Board of Trustees may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at the
sole discretion of the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   If a hearing is requested, the Village Clerk shall fix the date of
said hearing to be not later than 30 days from receipt of the request for the
hearing. Notice of said hearing, and with the date and time, shall be served
upon the agent, owner and occupant of the nuisance property by personal service
or certified mail and regular mail.
   (G)   The hearing shall be a “show-cause” hearing in which the agent, owner
and occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public nuisance
and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the Board of
Trustees. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may conduct the hearing or
said Chairperson may appoint another person as the hearing officer to conduct
the hearing (said hearing officer may be the Village Attorney or the
Enforcement Officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall mark and
receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance was made,
relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time and evidence that the notices
were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its evidence. The
rules of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all evidence must be
relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony shall be under oath
as administered by the hearing officer or any person so designated by the
hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is subject to the laws
of perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by affidavit.
   (H)   Not later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the Board of Trustees may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, extend
the date that owner, occupant, lessee or mortgages shall abate and remedy the
said public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The
finding of the Board of Trustees shall be made not later than 14 days after the
hearing, and notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by
regular United States mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this
hearing is final, provided that an interested party or parties may appeal such
decision to the appropriate court for adjudication.
   (I)   If the Nuisance Officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the village shall cause the abatement
of the nuisance.
   (J)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court the
findings and orders of the village, the village actions shall be stayed during
and until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed. In
cases of appeal from an action of the village condemning real property as a
nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
the trial.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 91.23 PENAL COURT ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as set forth below and in §
91.99 of this chapter.
   (A)   If the declared nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is not
abated within 15 days that the notice is served upon the owner and/or occupant
and the Village Clerk has not received a request for hearing, the Nuisance
Officer may cause issuance of a citation for the code violation.
   (B)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
Village Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the village.
   (C)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and fined for each offense.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 CIVIL COURT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may instruct, by resolution, the Village
Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a nuisance.
   (B)   Said civil suit may commence 15 days after the notice has been served
and after the time for remediation of the nuisance has passed as stated in the
resolution of the Board, or as stated in this subchapter, and may be filed and
prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement procedure has commenced,
terminated or is in progress.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
§ 91.25 EXPENSES; PAYMENT; LEVIES.
   (A)   When the village has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either village employees or through a
contract with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the
actual cost thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated
at the actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a $25 administrative fee.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office by regular
United States mail.
   (C)   (1)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is
done and one month after the expenses and costs are submitted to the owner and/
or occupant, the village may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the
real estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the village may collect said
assessments in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected.
      (2)   The village may also recover said expenses and costs of abating the
nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts
of the appropriate county in the state.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
FIREWORKS AND FIRECRACKERS
§ 91.40 USAGE AND SALE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except those
considered to be permissible by law, and sold only between June 24 and July 5
and between December 28 and January 1, inclusive, of any year.
(Ord. 659, passed 5-24-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241, 28-1244 and 28-1249
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   A person or persons found guilty of violations as set out in §
91.23 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per
each offense.
      (2)   Each day that the nuisance identified in the nuisance resolution is
not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to a separate fine.
(Ord. 621, passed 8-14-2017)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
92.003   Maintenance and control
   
92.004   Regulation of obstructions
   
92.005   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
92.006   Permitted use of public street space
   
92.007   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
92.008   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
92.009   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
92.010   Guttering and eave spouts
   
92.011   Prohibited obstructions
   
92.012   Trees in sidewalk space
   
92.013   Overhanging branches
   
92.014   Signs and canopies
   
92.015   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
92.016   Curb and gutter replacement or removal
   
92.017   Heavy equipment
   
92.018   Unapproved mail and newspaper receptacles; trash receptacle
containment structures
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
92.030   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
92.031   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
92.032   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
92.033   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
92.034   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
92.035   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
92.036   Special assessments for public works or improvements; notice to
nonresident owners
Sidewalks
   
92.050   Requirement to keep clean
   
92.051   Use of space beneath
   
92.052   Construction or removal by owner
   
92.053   Construction and repair at village direction
Streets and Alleys
   
92.065   Dedication to public use
   
92.066   Grading, paving and other improvements
   
92.067   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
92.068   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
92.069   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
92.070   Crossings
   
92.071   Names and numbers
   
92.072   Driveway approaches
   
92.073   Excavation
   
92.074   Driving stakes
   
92.075   Mixing concrete
   
92.076   Harmful liquids
   
92.077   Snow, debris and the like on street prohibited
Trees
   
92.090   Intent
   
92.091   Title
   
92.092   Definitions
   
92.093   Tree species to be planted
   
92.094   Location and spacing
   
92.095   Public tree care
   
92.096   Tree topping
   
92.097   Pruning, corner clearance
   
92.098   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
92.099   Removal of stumps
   
92.100   Interference with Village Tree Board
   
92.101   Review by governing body
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The village official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 92.002 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-
lay existing pavement or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the village
corporate area and the area adjoining the village; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These projects may be
funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in
Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431. The Board of Trustees may by ordinance create
improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may include two or
more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include
two or more types of the improvements authorized under this section in a single
district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which are to be funded by a
levy of special assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be
ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as otherwise provided
in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
to 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 to 19-2415
§ 92.003 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.004 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The village may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks,
curbstones, gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them
there or at the expense of the village and require and regulate the planting
and protection of shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and
removing of such trees.
   (B)   The village may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and
basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, lampposts,
awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over and adjoining and
all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the village.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 92.005 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The village shall have the power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks as provided in division (A) above, the
village, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to be
removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The
Board of Trustees shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes, and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments, and shall draw interest from the date
of the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the Street Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 92.006 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Overseer of Streets. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.007 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the village. Application for the location
of such appurtenances shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing.
Approval by the Board shall be issued in writing. Any public service company
granted a right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires,
conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect
and locate their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the Board.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Board. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Board, and the Village Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The Board
shall designate another location as closely as possible where the appurtenances
may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
§ 92.008 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellar way, open basement way or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, except that all existing stairways, open cellar ways,
open basement ways or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks,
pavements or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of
this prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk,
pavement or street satisfies the Overseer of Streets that the opening is
properly protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable material, and
furnishes the village with a bond in the amount set by the Board of Trustees
for the benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of
the use of the stairway, cellar way, basement way or entrance.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.009 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner or occupant engaged in the construction or demolition of any
building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect
all excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by
day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or refusal of the
owner or occupant to erect and maintain such protections shall constitute a
violation of this section, and the village may stop all work upon the buildings
and improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.010 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the village where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.011 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement,
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe, shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided in Chapter 91 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.012 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Overseer of Streets upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the village may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in Chapter 91 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.013 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street, or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in
Chapter 91 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.014 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk or alley, or on other public property, without
having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards, posters
and canopies shall be issued by the Village Clerk, subject to the approval of
the Overseer of Streets, upon the payment of the fee, if any, established by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of them being dislodged by ordinary
winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster or canopy is in
violation of this section, the village may proceed against the owner or
occupant of the premises where such sign, signboard, poster or canopy is
located as provided in
Chapter 91 of this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.015 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway, or for any other purpose
whatsoever, without first having obtained a permit from the Board of Trustees
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform the
Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the chief street official’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk or curb before the same is cut.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut
the paving under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Board
of Trustees or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the chief street official, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be discretionary with the Board of Trustees to order
the chief street official, under the supervision and inspection of the Village
Engineer or the committee of the Board of Trustees on the streets and alleys,
to do the work of cutting and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof
to the party who obtained such permit.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may consent to the work of cutting and
closing the paving to be done by the party holding such permit.
(Ord. 663, passed 7-26-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.016 CURB AND GUTTER REPLACEMENT OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   All owners shall be required to apply for and receive a permit from
the Village Office prior to the removal and/or replacement of a curb/gutter. If
any individual receives a permit from the village to remove and/or replace a
curb/gutter and complies with the parameters thereof, the Village Board may
agree to reimburse the citizen for the expenses associated with removal and/or
replacement of the curb/gutter.
   (B)   No reimbursement shall be made to an individual who fails to obtain
the requisite permit before the aforementioned work commences.
   (C)   All concrete replaced shall be at a minimum depth of six inches, and
the mix shall conform to NDOT 47B at 3500 psi.
(Ord. passed 6-11-2012; Ord. 662, passed 7-26-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.017 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
71.05 of this code, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey
over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp
discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting
edges; with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that
extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure
or damage any pavement, gutter or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the village police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.018 UNAPPROVED MAIL AND NEWSPAPER RECEPTACLES; TRASH RECEPTACLE
CONTAINMENT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or place any mail and
newspaper receptacles or trash receptacle containment structures to be
installed on the village right-of-way after the effective date of this section
without first obtaining the permission of the Village Board.
   (B)   Said receptacles or structures may be removed by the municipality at
the expense of the owner of the property upon with the obstruction or hazard is
located, should the owner fail or neglect after reasonable notice to do so.
   (C)   This prohibition shall apply only to prospective placement of any such
receptacles or structures and not to those currently in place.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 92.030 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the
notice a remonstrance petition against the sale:
             1.   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
            2.   Is signed by registered voters of the village equal in number
to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last regular
village election held therein; and
            3.   Is filed with the Board of Trustees, that property shall not
then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold.
         (b)   If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day
period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the petition, the Board of Trustees, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The Board
of Trustees shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the petition
is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct
and village or post office address with the voter registration records to
determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address
shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct and
village or post office address matches the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the Board of Trustees. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the Board of
Trustees finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and
addresses with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to
determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the petition and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid petition. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
petition and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page
shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the petition and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the hearing,
vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the petition
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be confirmed by passage
of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 92.031 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the village to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the village for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 92.032 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including the construction
of buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless,
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
92.034 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Trustees adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be
issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the
electors voting on the proposition of their issuance at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such a building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) above, and the question of the issuance
of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division may be submitted as one
question at a general village or special election if so ordered by resolution
or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village, when
defeated, shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 92.033 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 92.034 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 92.035 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the village shall not engage in the construction of any public
works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications
and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, professional engineer or those under the direct supervision of an
architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000, or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the village that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the village performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the village to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the village as a part of
a public water supply;
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the village is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the village’s architectural or
engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
§ 92.036 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO
NONRESIDENT OWNERS.
   (A)   Before any political subdivision or special taxing district for public
works or public improvements shall be formed, and before the village or any
political subdivision or special taxing district may impose any special
assessment for public works or public improvements, a copy of any notice
required to be published by law shall be mailed to the last known address of
all nonresident property owners as shown on the current tax rolls at the time
such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
   (B)   The Village Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to the formation of a special
taxing district for public works or public improvements shall mail by certified
mail, with return receipt requested, a copy of the published notice in regard
to the formation of any special taxing district within the village to the last
known address as shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property
owner.
(Neb. RS 13-311)
   (C)   The Village Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to any special assessment by a
special taxing district shall mail by certified mail, with return receipt
requested, a copy of such notice to be published to the last known address as
shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
   (D)   The failure of the Village Clerk, or any other person upon whom the
duty is imposed by law, to mail a copy of a published notice as provided in
this section shall invalidate the assessment against the property involved
while permitting all other assessments and procedures to be lawful.
(Neb. RS 13-313)
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence and
mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of
the county and who is a record owner of property within the boundaries of the
village, special assessment district or taxing district involved.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.050 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substances to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow,
sleet, ice, mud or other substances to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the
Board of Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business
district shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm
unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in
which case, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day,
and sidewalks within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned
within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.051 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained
from the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit plans and
specifications of any present or proposed construction to the Village Engineer.
   (C)   If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted.
   (D)   All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving them builds, maintains and keeps in repair a sidewalk
over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all damages that may be
sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of the sidewalk
being defective or in a dangerous condition.
   (E)   As a condition precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit
for the use of any space underneath the village sidewalks as contemplated in
this section, the Board of Trustees may require the applicant to furnish a bond
to the village as obligee for the benefit of any person who may suffer an
injury or damage by reason of such use.
   (F)   The bond shall be in such sum as the Board of Trustees, in its
discretion, may designate.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.052 CONSTRUCTION OR REMOVAL BY OWNER.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, or
to remove any sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or remove any
sidewalk without first obtaining a permit. Said owner shall make application in
writing for a permit and file such application in the office of the Village
Clerk. The permit shall give a description of the lot or piece of land along
which the sidewalk is to be constructed or removed.
      (3)   (a)   As to a permit to construct a sidewalk, the Board of Trustees
shall issue the desired permit unless good cause shall appear why said permit
shall be denied.
         (b)   As for a permit for removal, no sidewalk shall be removed until
the procedure in division (B) below has been compiled with and the Board of
Trustees makes a determination thereon.
   (B)   The procedure to remove is, to wit:
      (1)   When an application for removal is filed with the Village Clerk,
the application must be accompanied with a certified list of property owners of
record and their addresses, if available, and if not available, the addresses
of the occupants of the premises, if tenanted, in a linear direction from the
subject sidewalk for a distant of not less than 200 feet.
      (2)   Prior to the Board of Trustees voting on approving an application
to allow sidewalk removal, the applicant shall notify each of the property
owners of record or the occupant thereof that the application has been filed
and the date and the time the matter has been placed on the agenda of the Board
of Trustees. Said notifications may either be mailed by United States mail,
postage prepaid, to said individuals not less than ten days before the hearing
or delivered in person by the applicant. The applicant shall file a certificate
with the Village Clerk verifying that the notifications were mailed and the
names, addresses and dates of mailing, or provide the Village Clerk with
acknowledgements signed by said individuals of their receipt of notice of said
matter.
      (3)   (a)   At the meeting, the Board of Trustees shall make a
determination if the provisions pertaining to the removal of the sidewalk have
been complied with in all respects and particulars. In addition, the Board of
Trustees shall:
            1.   Determine that there will be no negative or detrimental effect
upon the surrounding properties;
            2.   Determine that there is no longer a need for continued
existence of the sidewalk;
            3.   That the removal of the sidewalk will result in a positive
change; and
            4.   That the removal of the sidewalk, in addition to the
foregoing, would not detrimentally effect the general planning program and
comprehensive plan of the village.
         (b)   All burdens and obligations meeting the foregoing are upon the
applicant. The Board of Trustees shall then either approve or deny the issuance
of the permit for the removal of the sidewalk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to be
constructed said sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the municipality. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on
the established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then
on a grade or elevation indicated and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 622, passed 8-14-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.053 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks, or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks, in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 to 19-
2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 92.065 DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE.
   No street or alley shall be dedicated to public use by the proprietor of
ground in the village, shall be deemed a public street or alley or shall be
under the use or control of the Board of Trustees unless the dedication shall
be accepted and confirmed by an ordinance especially passed for such purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.066 GRADING, PAVING AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The village has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any
street, avenue or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts and sewers.
No street, avenue or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-508)
Cross-reference:
   Other provisions on grading and paving, see §
92.002
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 92.067 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The village may, without petition or creating a street improvement
district, grade, curb, gutter and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance of not to exceed one block on either side of that paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from that
major traffic street.
   (B)   Those improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or
alley or any unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed
the minimum standards for pavement set by the village for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
Board of Trustees may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or issue
paving bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003. (Neb. RS 18-2001 to 18-2004)
§ 92.068 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have the power to open, widen or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the
village and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or
lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of
the property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided
by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located, to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, to any public utilities and to
any cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have the power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 92.069 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the Board of Trustees vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the village or public at large, even though those losses or damages
or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest
of the village or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Trustees decides that it would be in the best
interests of the village to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way, the Board of Trustees shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first-class mail to their last known address or, if there is no known
address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the village. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the Board of Trustees will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or if a
special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time and place
of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The Board of Trustees may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the Board of Trustees and waive their right of access. The signing of this
form shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting
property owners but shall create the presumption that the Board of Trustees’
action was proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/
waiver form, the Board of Trustees may still proceed with vacating the street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb.
RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The Board of Trustees shall pass an ordinance that
includes essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the village;
         (b)   A statement that the village will have an easement for
maintaining all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested
residents of the village to a special commission to ascertain the amount of
special damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and
which resulted from the Board of Trustees vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees. Only special damages shall be awarded to the
abutting property owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule: An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way. If
no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
§ 92.070 CROSSINGS.
   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Overseer of Streets, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the Board of Trustees deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the Village Clerk, the Village Clerk shall refer the application to
the Overseer of Streets, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
Board of Trustees. Action by the Board of Trustees on the application, whether
the application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 92.071 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets,
upon the erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the
building and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.072 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall give the property owner notice by
registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the
owner or the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the
driveway approach.
      (2)   If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails
or neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Overseer of
Streets may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.073 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.074 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.075 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.076 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.077 SNOW, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push or deposit snow, sleet, ice or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the village.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
TREES
§ 92.090 INTENT.
   It is the intention of the Board of Trustees and it is hereby ordained, that
the provisions of this subchapter shall become and be made a part of the code
of the village, and the sections of this subchapter may be renumbered to
accomplish such intention.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.091 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village Tree
Ordinance of the Village of Pender, Nebraska.”
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.092 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the village, or to which
the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the village.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.093 TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The following species of trees, listed by common name, constitutes the
official street tree and park tree species for the village. No species other
than those included in this list may be planted as street or park trees without
written permission of the Village Tree Board.
Small Trees
   Ash, Wafer
   Corktree, Amur
   Crabapples, Flowering
   Fir
   Goldenraintree
   Hawthorne
   Lilac
   Magnolia, saucer
   Maple, Amur
   Mountainash, European
   Pear, Bradford
   Plum, Purpleleaf
   Redbud, Eastern
   Spruce
Medium Trees
   Buckeye, Ohio
   Gingko
   Linden, Littleleaf
   Lindon, Redmond
   Pagoda Tree, Japanese
   Sweetgum
Large Trees
   Ash, Blue
   Ash, Green
   Ash, White
   Austrian Pine
   Chestnut, Horse
   Eastern White Pine
   Honeylocust, Thornless
   Maple, Norway
   Maple, Red
   Maple, Sugar
   Oak, Scarlet
   Ponderosa Pine
   Scotch Pine
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.094 LOCATION AND SPACING.
   (A)   The spacing of street trees and park trees will be in accordance with
the tree species size classes listed in §
92.093 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following, except in special plantings:
      (1)   Small trees: 30 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: 50 feet.
   (B)   The distance street trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
92.093 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following:
      (1)   Small trees: two feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: three feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: four feet.
   (C)   No street tree or park tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any
street intersection, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or
curblines or within 15 feet of any driveway or alley.
   (D)   No street tree or park tree other than those species listed as small
trees in §
92.093 of this chapter may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground
water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility line wire or main.
No street tree shall be planted within ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.095 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Village
Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of said trees is in
accordance with §§
92.093 and
92.094 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.096 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or village
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to the stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions, where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted
from this subchapter at the determination of the Village Tree Board.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.097 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
village shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public. The village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on
private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the
street from a street light, or interfere with visibility of any traffic-control
device or sign.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.098 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The village shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the village when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the village. The Village
Tree Board will notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be
done by said owners at their own expense within 60 days after the date of
service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such
provisions, the village shall have the authority to remove such trees with the
cost of such removal to be recovered by proper action in the name of the
village or to be assessed against said lot, lots or parcels of land as a
special tax thereon, and to be levied and collected as are other taxes of the
village.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.099 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.100 INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Village Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.101 REVIEW BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Pender shall have
the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions of the Village Tree Board.
Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the Village Tree Board to the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees who may hear the matter and make final
decision.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Running at large
   
93.03   Wild animals
   
93.04   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
93.05   Enclosures
   
93.06   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
93.07   Equine; bovine; prohibited acts
   
93.08   Officer’s compensation
   
93.09   Interference with police
Rabies
   
93.25   Definitions
   
93.26   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
93.27   Post-incident management
   
93.28   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management
   
93.29   Animal pound; impoundment; release; fees
   
93.30   Proclamation of danger
   
93.31   Enforcement
Dogs
   
93.45   License and tax required; exemption
   
93.46   Collar or harness required
   
93.47   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
93.48   Liability of owner
   
93.49   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
93.50   Dangerous dogs
   
93.51   Prohibited breeds
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
(Ord. 210, passed 3- -1975)
§ 93.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog or cat found off the premises of
the owner and not under the control of the owner or a responsible person,
either by leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of
physical restraint.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any dog or cat
to run at large within the village.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 494, passed 7-30-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.03 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits, except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provisions for its
food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff or any member of the police force of the village or any other
city or village, or any other public official authorized by the village or any
other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special
investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb.
RS 81-201 while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds or poultry.
      OWNER or CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C) Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 93.07 EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall or dragging of any bovine
by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice or
contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice occurring in
conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 to 54-912
§ 93.08 OFFICER’S COMPENSATION.
   If the Board of Trustees so provides, any official appointed or designated
to destroy and dispose of animals under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid, in addition to his or her regular salary or other compensation, the sum
set by the Board for each animal so destroyed and disposed of.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to compensate keeper of pound, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 93.09 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer performing any duty enjoined upon that
person by the provisions of this chapter or break open or in any manner,
directly or indirectly, aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the animal
shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used to collect or convey
animals to the shelter.
Cross reference:
   Obstructing a peace officer prohibited, see §
132.05
RABIES
§ 93.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The state’s Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any:
      (1)   Dog of the species Canis familiaris;
      (2)   Cat of the species Felis domesticus; or
      (3)   Ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor or have control of, charge of or custody of a
domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic animal or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person’s
house, yard or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. Village health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state or
licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
§ 93.26 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the village shall be vaccinated against
rabies with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules
and regulations adopted and promulgated by the department. Young domestic
animals shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the village
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, every hybrid animal
in the village shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated at
intervals specified by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the village shall be vaccinated within 30 after purchase or
arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the village prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to vaccination
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the village for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the village for field trial or show purposes, or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the village for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the village which does not comply with the
animal health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are
applicable to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 71-4405) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 DOMESTIC OR HYBRID ANIMAL OR LIVESTOCK; POST-EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT.
   Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4407) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29 ANIMAL POUND; IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrids of the family Canidae.
All impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment
and maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of the prescribed pound fees
and by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter
within 72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded
because its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and a valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be
reclaimed by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of
all impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment, a domestic or hybrid animal may
be claimed by the payment of established pound fees and by compliance with the
rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release.
If the domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the
authorities may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with
applicable laws or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
§ 93.30 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever in its opinion the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises on which the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all
owners of any such species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in
this section.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the owner of any domestic or hybrid animal or other animal fails
or refuses to comply with §§
93.27 or
93.28 of this chapter, the rabies control authority shall obtain an order for
seizure of the animal pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 29, Article 8.
(Neb. RS 71-4410)
   (B)   In the village, all ordinances, codes or rules and regulations
concerning the control of rabies or the vaccination of domestic or hybrid
animals against rabies shall be enforced by the village health and law
enforcement officials or those other officers with regulatory authority as
specified by the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 71-4412)
DOGS
§ 93.45 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of four
months within the village shall, within 30 days after the acquisition of the
said dog, acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before the first
day of June of each year. The tax shall be delinquent from and after June 1;
provided the possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate
limits subsequent to June 1 of any year shall be liable for the payment of the
dog tax levied herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten
days thereafter.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued by the Municipal Office upon the payment of a
license fee of $10 plus $1.25 in reference to Neb. RS 54-603(3) for each dog.
Said license shall not be transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case
of the licensed dog’s death, sale, or other disposition. The owner shall state
when the application is made and upon printed forms provided for such purpose
his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog he
or she owns and keeps. A certification that the dog has had a rabies shot,
effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be presented when the
license is applied for, and no license or tag shall be issued until the
certificate is shown.
   (C)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the license tax as prescribed herein.
(Ord. 684, passed 3-27-2023; Ord. 699, passed 2-24-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 93.46 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place
upon the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate
thereon.
      (2)   The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.47 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.48 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy
any real or personal property of any description belonging to another person.
   (B)   The owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal
to the value of the damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-606 and 56-602
§ 93.49 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the village.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the Village Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the village police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
village animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.50 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The governing body (that being the Chairperson
and the Board of Trustees) or any other entity authorized by the governing body
to enforce the animal control laws of the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Chief of Police, members of the Police
Department and any other individual employed, appointed or authorized by the
governing body or animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the
enforcement of this act or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing
of animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and shall
include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in
whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG. The following:
         (a)   Any pit bull terrier, either full-blooded pit bull terrier or of
mixed breeding, including pit bull terrier;
         (b)   Any dog that, according to the records of an animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed or inflicted severe personal injury on a human
being on public or private property;
            2.   Has killed a domestic animal, without provocation while the
dog was off the owner’s property; or
            3.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by the governing body or animal control authority and the owner has
received notice of such determination and such dog again aggressively bites,
attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not
be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the threat, any injury that is not a severe
injury or the damage was sustained by a person, who:
               a.   At the time, was committing willful trespass as defined in
Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property of the
owner of the dog;
               b.   Was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog;
               c.   Has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog; or
               d.   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts a non-severe injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public private property; or
            2.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more
broken bones or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the
victim.
   (B)   Confined.
      (1)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or structure
shall also protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog
shall post a warning sign on the property where the dog is kept that is clearly
visible and that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
   (C)   Additional regulations. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
restrict or prohibit any governing body of the village from establishing and
enforcing laws or ordinances at least as stringent as the provisions of this
section.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by
an animal control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The
owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal
control authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal
control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by
the animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this
section.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.51 PROHIBITED BREEDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any pit bull
terrier or rottweiler, either full-blooded or of mixed breed, within the
village limits.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-11-1999) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who permits his/her dog or cat to run at large within the
confines of the village as set out in §
93.02 of this chapter is hereby deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined for the first offense not more than $100
and, for any repeat offenses, shall be fined not more than $250, and shall pay
the costs of prosecution.
   (C)   The owner, possessor or harborer of any dog or any person who violates
any of the provisions of §
93.26 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $20 and not less than $5 for each
offense.
   (D)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog, as set out in §
93.50 of this chapter, inflicts on a human being a serious bodily injury as
defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor for the first
offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (D)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
(Ord. 210, passed 3- -1975; Ord. 494, passed 7-30-2003)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Levies authorized
   
110.02   Collection dates
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The village shall have the power to raise revenue by levying and
collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the
village and to regulate such occupation or business by ordinance. Any
occupation tax imposed pursuant to this section shall make a reasonable
classification of businesses, users of space or kinds of transactions for the
purposes of imposing such tax, except that no occupation tax shall be imposed
on any transaction which is subject to tax under Neb. RS 53-160; 66-489; 66-
489.02; 66-4,140; 66-4,145; 66-4,146; 77-2602 or 77-4008, or which is exempt
from tax under Neb. RS 77-2704.24. The occupation tax shall be imposed in the
manner provided in Neb. RS 18-1208, except that Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply
to an occupation tax subject to Neb. RS 86-704. All such taxes shall be uniform
in respect to the classes upon which they are imposed. All scientific and
literary lectures and entertainments shall be exempt from such taxation, as
well as concerts and other musical entertainments given exclusively by the
citizens of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company or association doing business in the village for the use,
support and benefit of volunteer fire departments regularly organized under the
laws of the state regulating the same. The Village Clerk shall collect with
diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon receipt of the tax, the Clerk
shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the Village Treasurer, who shall credit
the same to a fund, to be known as the Special Occupation Tax Fund, for the
benefit of the volunteer Fire Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief
of the Fire Department and allowed by the Board, the Treasurer shall pay over
the proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire
Department, as hereinbefore provided.
(Neb. RS 35-106)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-
101 et seq. and doing business within the corporate limits of the village in
any sum which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be
paid under the Act to obtain such license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
§ 110.02 COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the Board of Trustees shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
that any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due
and payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by
any person to the Village Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly
dated, specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue
collected shall be deposited into the General Fund by the Village Treasurer,
except as otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the village shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount
due. All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
   
111.05   Occupation tax; fee
Licenses Required
   
111.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.16   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.17   Licensee requirements
   
111.18   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
111.19   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.20   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
111.21   Catering licenses
   
111.22   Display of license
   
111.23   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.24   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.25   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Location
   
111.41   Access to dwellings
   
111.42   Sanitary conditions
   
111.43   Hours of sale
   
111.44   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.45   Original package required
   
111.46   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.47   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
   
111.48   Retail licensing standards; binding recommendations
   
111.49   Application notice; procedure
   
111.50   Application; municipal examination
Cross-reference:
   Drinking on public property; open beverage containers, see §
133.25
   Offenses involving minors and alcohol, see
Chapter 133
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01 to
53-103.51 shall be used.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club, or any place
open to the general public, to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle
club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club, or any place open to the general
public, except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to
the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully
engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses
operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor, as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which has previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly does
accept such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible,
the officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to
preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24
hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as in Neb. RS
71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 OCCUPATION TAX; FEE.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax, in addition to the
state liquor license fee, is hereby levied on the following businesses:
Alcoholic liquor wholesale license                                         $250
Beer wholesale license                                                     $125
Bottle club license                                                        $250
Manufacturer of alcohol and spirits                                        $500
Manufacturer of beer and wine                                              $500
Retail Class A - beer only on sale                                         $25
Retail Class B - beer only off sale                                        $25
Retail Class C - alcoholic liquor, including beer, on and off sale, inside $250
village limits
Retail Class D - alcoholic liquor, including beer, off sale only, inside   $150
village limits
Retail Class F - beer only, off sale, outside corporate limits             $25
Retail Class H - alcoholic liquor, including beer, issued to non-profit    $50
corporation, on sale only, inside or outside corporate limits
Retail Class I - alcoholic liquor, including beer, on sale only, inside    $0
village limits
Retail Class J - beer and wine only on sale oinly, inside village limits   $75
Retail Class K - wine only, off sale                                       $125
 
 
(Ord. 418, passed - -)
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes, except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation:
         (a)   If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fundraising events, legally conducted under
the Act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale. Alcoholic
liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be identified
as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the rules and
regulations of the Commission by signage, and the location of the manufacturer
shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the exhibition,
festival or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of the alcoholic
liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, or
any hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of worship
for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
state’s Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor in
excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in the case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to a felony
under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to any Class
I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12, or
any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state, except
that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the state’s Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act, would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant whose
spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license.
Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the
state’s Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public
interest will not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be
prima facie evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor
license, the applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This
prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of
the Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.18 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the state’s Liquor Control Commission of notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the state’s Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter, or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter, at
any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and to pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For the purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board
of Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.25 of this chapter, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated
relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be
appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing
a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal
in the manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131 to fix a time and place for a hearing
at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit, from the applicant and any other person bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of Trustees in support of or
in protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing, the Board of
Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The Village
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution, which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee,
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for the calendar year 2020, and for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C)(9).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the state’s Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds two times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.19 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the state’s
Liquor Control Act or the rules and regulations of the state’s Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.20 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the state’s Liquor
Control Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the
Commission in the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to
require the licensee to submit an application for renewal.
      (2)   Any licensed retail premises located in an area which is annexed to
the village shall file a formal application for a license, and while the
application is pending, the licensee may continue all license privileges until
the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If that license expires
within 60 days following the annexation date of the area, the license may be
renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, one time between January
10 and January 30 of each year, individual notice, in the form prescribed by
law, of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license
and each bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the
right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the
dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year.
      (2)   If written protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a
license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk by three or more residents
of the village on or before February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the
Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing to determine whether continuation of the
license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this
section, the Board of Trustees may request a licensee to submit an application
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.21 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.18 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.22 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act or any village ordinance by
any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq. or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint
shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall
be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state
the particular provision, rule or regulation believed to have been violated and
the facts in detail upon which the belief is based. If the Board of Trustees is
satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and that from
the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the
matter for hearing within ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint
and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing
and of the particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases
be disposed of by the Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the state’s Liquor Control Commission as
provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.40 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license
shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle
club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent
persons or for veterans and their wives or children.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to any location within such
distance of 150 feet:
         (a)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the state’s Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to the making of application for license;
         (b)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
         (c)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb.
RS 53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the Commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) above, taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   (1)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall
submit a written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver.
      (2)   The application shall include:
         (a)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
         (b)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
         (c)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (D)
above.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is:
      (1)   Surrounded by property owned by the college or university,
including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university; or
      (2)   Adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or
university, including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way
adjacent to the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.41 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which has any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.42 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.43 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      OFF SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the
premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail by drink for consumption on
the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the village, except during
the hours provided herein:
Alcoholic Liquors (except Beer and Wine)
Monday through Saturday  
   Off sale          6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   On sale           6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
Sunday                   
   Off sale          12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m.
   On sale           12:00 noon to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and Wine
Daily                    
   Off sale          6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   On sale           6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages, nor remain
or be in possession or control of open alcoholic liquor containers, for
purposes of consumption on the licensed premises for a period of time longer
than 15 minutes after the time fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic
beverages and before 6:00 a.m. on any day on the said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.44 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise or in payment for any services rendered, and if any
person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to be
created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.47 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the state’s
Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. The
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.48 RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve
applications and deny licenses pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   The governing body shall only consider the following licensing
standards and criteria at the hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a
retail alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell
alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises,
and for the purpose of formulating a recolllfuertdation from the governing body
to the state’s Liquor Control Commission in accordance with the state’s Liquor
Control Act:
      (1)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in
the area;
      (2)   The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
      (3)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity
of the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems and
the proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
      (4)   Zoning restrictions and the local governing body’s zoning and land-
use policies;
      (5)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
      (6)   The existence of a citizen’s protest and similar evidence in
support of or in opposition to the application;
      (7)   The existing population and projected growth within the
jurisdiction of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
      (8)   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license and
the distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such
licenses;
      (9)   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the
neighborhood or community where the proposed premises are located;
      (10)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated
or presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in Neb. RS 53-101.01;
      (11)   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with Neb. RS
53-102;
      (12)   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect
against the possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic
liquor shall be displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably
secured;
      (13)   Whether the applicant is fit, willing and able to properly provide
the service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (14)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management
and control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure
that the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act;
      (15)   The background information of the applicant established by
information contained in the public records of the Commission and
investigations conducted by law enforcement agencies;
      (16)   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
local governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental unit or any court of law;
      (17)   Whether the applicant or the applicant’s representatives
suppressed any fact or provided any inaccurate information to the Commission or
local governing body or the employees of the Commission or local governing body
in regard to the license application or liquor investigations. The applicant
shall be required to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the
investigating agents of the local governing body;
      (18)   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks
and public institutions;
      (19)   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed
premises or in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
      (20)   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations and
municipal ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever
forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a
felony or charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the
interest of good morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has
forfeited bond to appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or
ordinance relating to alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this section. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, APPLICANT shall be synonymous with LICENSE.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.49 APPLICATION NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. RS 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the date, time
and location of the hearing. Two or more proceedings which are legally or
factually related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto
makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the governing body that prejudice would
result therefrom.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal Attorney.
The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action. Each
witness may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by question and
answer. The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s). The governing body
may admit and give probative effect to evidence which possesses probative value
commonly accepted by reasonably prudent individuals. The Municipal Attorney may
limit testimony where it appears incompetent, irrelevant or unduly repetitious.
If there is opposition to any application and such opposition desires the
opportunity to present arguments and to cross-examine the applicant and any
witnesses in favor of such application, they shall choose a spokesperson to
perform such function who shall notify the Municipal Attorney of his or her
representation prior to the start of the hearing.
      (2)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
         (a)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to
the Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
         (b)   Presentation of evidence, witnesses and arguments by applicant;
         (c)   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed
license;
         (d)   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by Municipal
Attorney, governing body or duly appointed agent;
         (e)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
         (f)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
         (g)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
         (h)   Presentation of evidence by the municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
         (i)   Cross-examination by applicant;
         (j)   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by municipality
administration and agent; and
         (k)   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
      (3)   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the
party filing the application.
Any member of the governing body and the Municipal Attorney may question any
witness, call witnesses or request information.
      (4)   All witnesses shall be sworn.
      (5)   The governing body may make further inquiry and investigation
following the hearing.
      (6)   The governing body or the applicant may order the hearing to be
recorded by the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-134
§ 111.50 APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors
at retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall
then notify the Municipal Clerk by registered or certified mail. The governing
body shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and
report its recommendation for approval or denial of the application in writing
to the state’s Liquor Control Commission within 45 days of receipt from the
state’s Liquor Control Commission. The governing body may examine, or cause to
be examined, under oath, any applicant; examine or cause to be examined, the
books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony and to take proof
for its information in the performance of its duties. For the purpose of
obtaining any of the information desired, the governing body may authorize its
agent, Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its behalf. The
governing body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing upon the
receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application. The
governing body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held, and
at which time the governing body shall receive evidence, under oath, either
orally or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person concerning the
propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation
in, the municipality one time not less than seven, nor more than 14 days,
before the time of hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the local governing
body in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license may do so
at the time of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the receipt of notice from the Commission. After such hearing, the
governing body shall cause to be spread at large in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall, thereupon, mail to the Commission by first-
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 53-131, 53-134
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
Section
   
112.01   License to sell; issuance
   
112.02   License application
   
112.03   License term; fees
   
112.04   Rights of licensee
   
112.05   Disposition of fees
   
112.06   Transfer of license
   
112.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
Cross-reference:
   Sale of tobacco to persons under 21, see §
133.21
   Use of tobacco by persons under 21, see §
133.20
§ 112.01 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes and cigarette material to persons 21 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies and
corporations by the Village Clerk upon application duly made as provided in §
112.02 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 28-1421)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 112.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation desiring
a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the Village Clerk a
written application stating the name of the person, partnership, limited
liability company or corporation for whom the license is desired, and the exact
location of the place of business, and shall deposit with the application the
amount of the license fee provided in §
112.03 of this chapter. If the applicant is an individual, the application
shall include the applicant’s Social Security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422)
§ 112.03 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability company
or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems and packages of tobacco in any
form at wholesale shall pay a license fee of $100, and if such combined annual
sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic
nicotine delivery systems and packages of tobacco, the annual license fee shall
be $15. No wholesaler’s license shall be issued in any year on a less basis
than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the application a
statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if the applicant is a
partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past, such wholesaler’s combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems and packages of tobacco in
every form have not exceeded in the aggregate 150,000 annually, and that such
sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for the current year for which the
license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be
guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler’s license shall be revoked until the
full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in §§
112.01 and
112.02 of this chapter shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars,
tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes and cigarette
material by the licensee and employees to persons 21 years of age or over, at
the place of business described in the license for the term therein authorized,
unless the license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb.
RS 28-1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 112.05 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the Village Clerk to the Treasurer of the school fund for
the village.
(Neb. RS 28-1426)
§ 112.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the Village Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the
purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the
Village Clerk may transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428)
§ 112.07 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
Peddlers, Hawkers, Itinerant Merchants and Solicitors
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Registration certificate required; fee; exceptions
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Permission required to operate on private property
   
113.10   Policy on soliciting
   
113.11   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.12   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
113.13   Prohibited solicitation
   
113.14   Food trucks and itinerant merchants
PEDDLERS, HAWKERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in the temporary business of selling goods within the village and who,
in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or
any place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future,
or for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is
not a peddler.
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE REQUIRED; FEE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous or unhealthful goods and
services and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers and itinerant merchants or solicitors shall, before doing business
within the municipality, make application for, and be issued, a registration
certificate.
   (B)   An applicant who will be in town conducting business on multiple days
within a 12-month period shall have the option of applying for an annual
permit, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The village must be notified in writing of
each date that the business will be conducted within the municipal limits prior
to engaging in the activity.
   (C)   The cost of said registration certificate shall be the sum of $10 per
day, or $100 annually.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall be construed to require the above registration
certificate for any person, or persons, selling produce raised within the
county, or at a local farmer's market nor to wholesale salespersons soliciting
merchants directly, nor shall this apply to fundraising solicitations for
political subdivisions, charities or local non-profit organizations.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 689, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for said registration certificate shall be made to the
Village Clerk and shall contain the name and address of the applicant, the
permanent address of the applicant, the name and address of the person, if any,
for whose purpose the business will be concluded, a summary of the goods to be
sold or the services rendered, a description of any vehicle proposed to be used
in the business (including the license number) and the date or dates the
business will be conducted within the municipality.
   (B)   Applicants shall provide proof of a current and effective commercial
liability insurance, proof of a state sales tax permit, if applicable, and
proof of a food establishment inspection permit, if applicable.
(Ord. 689, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare.
      (2)   In particular, it will constitute valid reason for disapproval of
an application when there is tangible evidence that the applicant:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this subchapter may be revoked by the
Village Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06 of this chapter. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or
her last known address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be revoked for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner, or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees.
The appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of
Trustees shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such
hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this subchapter
shall be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event
more than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this subchapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 PERMISSION REQUIRED TO OPERATE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Registration certificate applicants are responsible for obtaining permission
from landowners to operate on private property.
(Ord. 689, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 113.10 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.11 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.12 POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.11 of this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.13 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.11 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.14 FOOD TRUCKS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous or unhealthful goods and
services and to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold
and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, before doing business
within the municipality, all itinerant for-profit merchants shall make
application for, and be issued, a registration certificate.
   (B)   The cost of said registration certificate shall be the sum of $10 per
day, or $100 annually. Application for said registration certificate shall be
made to the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the name and address of the
applicant, a summary of the goods to be sold or the services rendered, and the
date (or dates) the business will be conducted within the municipality.
   (C)   In addition, for-profit food truck operators shall provide proof of a
current and effective commercial liability insurance, photo ID, proof of a
Nebraska state sales tax permit, if applicable, proof of a food establishment
inspection permit, if applicable, and a description of the vehicle to be
utilized, including license number.
   (D)   Applicants are responsible for obtaining permission from landowners to
operate on private property.
   (E)   An applicant who will be in town conducting business on multiple days
within a 12-month period shall have the option of applying for an annual
permit. The village must be notified in writing of each date that the business
will be conducted within the municipal limits prior to engaging in the
activity.
   (F)   Farmer’s markets and non-profit organizations/sellers shall be exempt
herefrom.
(Ord. 693, passed 7-8-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages the property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with the property of another so as to
endanger persons or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more, but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500, or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
         (a)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
         (b)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power
infrastructure facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a
person who has the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an aircraft,
including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons, or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of Trustees in
accordance with its decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only
lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the village for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   First degree criminal trespass as set out in §
130.02(A) of this chapter is a Class I misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
      (2)   (a)   Second degree criminal trespass as set out in §
130.02(B) of this chapter is a Class III misdemeanor, except as provided for in
division (B)(2)(b) below.
         (b)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
Cross-reference:
   Obstructions, see
Chapter 92
   Prohibited obstructions, see
Chapter 92
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places, or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the village
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the Board of
Trustees from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with a firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or village;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this village.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer acting under color of his or her official authority from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose
of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH A FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation to
protect or control not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
emergency care provider, or an emergency in which human life or property are in
jeopardy, to any hospital, emergency medical service or other person or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for the assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation, and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook or stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Littering
   
133.06   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
133.07   Burning rubbish
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
   
133.23   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.24   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.25   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.55   Discharge of firearms
   
133.56   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
133.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and safety provisions generally, see
Chapter 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this village.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, or noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; or the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, buildings, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the village, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and in every
such case, the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in
any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in cases of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance, into any well, or into any spring, brook or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue or keep up any dam or other obstruction
in any river or stream of water in the village and thereby raise an artificial
pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly injurious to the
public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense, and the court shall,
moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.07 BURNING RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any rubbish, trash, grass,
leaves or other refuse material, either by means of open burning or in trash
barrels, within the village limits.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
133.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine
products or use tobacco, in any form whatever, in this village shall be guilty
of an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free
from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the
person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give or furnish in any way any tobacco, in any
form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine products to any person under
21 years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) above, a person who is at least 15
years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with division (A) above if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if the person is
under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer or an intern with a state
or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
state’s Juvenile Code and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this division (B) shall not be in violation of Neb. RS
28-1427.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in §
133.21(B) of this chapter, any person under the age of 21 years who obtains
cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery
systems or alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by
representing that he or she is of the age of 21 years or over is guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.23 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by a misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 133.24 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 to 53-103.51 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions
of the terms “alcoholic liquor,” “consume,” “minor,” “sale” and “to sell.”
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in §
111.15 of this code, no minor may sell, dispense, consume or have in his or her
possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any
other place, including public streets, alleys, roads or highways, upon property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in
or on any other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets,
alleys, roads or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any
subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume, possess or have physical
control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony or in his or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, where found, see Neb. RS 53-103
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 to 53-409
§ 133.25 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced; and
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and not more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA.
         (a)   The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while the
motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to the
driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area.
         (b)   PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the last upright
seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by the driver or
a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or while on any highway in this village.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
111.03 of this code or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any person to
consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this village; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or while on
any highway in this village.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of,
but not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
state’s Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. RS Chapter 75, Article 3.
      (2)   Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and
may consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public
parking area or on any highway in this village if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08) Penalty, see §
133.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, being
Neb. RS 60-301 et seq. affixed thereto for more than six hours on any public
property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without the permission of the owner, or after the
permission of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without the permission of the owner, or after the
permission of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a “manufactured home” as defined in Neb. RS
71-4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for
which an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park,
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the village. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the
village shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a) Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the jurisdiction
which issued such license plates; or
         (b) Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   Will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes and that after 30 days, the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle, the name of the private
towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private towing
service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E) is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purposes of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a
vehicle that is parked without permission on private property that is not
typically made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) above to be removed from public property in this
village, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a
state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (A)
(a)(2), (A)(a)(3) or (A)(a)(4), or (A)(b)(1), (A)(b)(2) or (A)(b)(3), above to
be removed from public property in this village, the state agency shall deliver
the vehicle to the village, which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody, less any expenses incurred by the village, shall be held by the
village without interest for the benefit of the owner or lienholder of such
vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period,
the proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal, or while in the possession of the village or its
contractual agent, while in the possession of a private towing service or as a
result of any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (A)(a)(2), (A)(a)(3) or (A)(a)(4) or (A)(b)
(1), (A)(b)(2) or (A)(b)(3) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person, other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency, shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 133.41 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.55 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.56 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
133.07 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined $50 for the first offense and $100 for a second or subsequent
offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Gambling
   
134.04   Sexual predators; registration
   
134.05   Child safety zones
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse in exchange for money or other thing of value commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
      (1)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
“trafficking victim” as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
state’s Juvenile Code. A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18
years of age into custody under this section shall immediately report an
allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and
Human Services, which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the
Child Protection and Family Safety Act, being Neb. RS 28-710 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person 18 years of age or over commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with the intent to
affront or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect the ownership,
custody or use of any gambling device knowing that it shall be used in the
advancement of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, being Neb. RS 77-3001 et seq.
shall have an affirmative defense to possession of a gambling device described
in division (C)(1) above if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement
device decal as required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be
overcome if the owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the
device constituted unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was
operated on the premises of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal gambling device tax stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Pub. Law No. 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this
village and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833, or any
equipment, components, peripherals, software, hardware or accessories related
to electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices, be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting of or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the state’s Bingo Act being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq.,
the state’s County and City Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., the
state’s Lottery and Raffle Act being Neb. RS 9-401 et seq., the state’s Pickle
Card Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-301 et seq., the state’s Small Lottery and
Raffle Act being Neb. RS 9-501 et seq., the state’s Lottery Act or Neb. RS 9-
701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the state’s Racetrack Gaming Act, being Neb. RS 2-1201 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 SEXUAL PREDATORS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders
present a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ places of residency, as provided in the state’s Sexual
Predator Residency Restriction Act.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the village a compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as an individual who has a
high risk of recidivism as determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under Neb.
RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
   (C)   (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July l, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July l, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Residency restriction, see Neb. RS 29-4003, 29-4013
§ 134.05 CHILD SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
         CHILD SAFETY ZONE. All village parks and public way within 300 feet of
a village park as defined herein.
         VILLAGE PARK.
            1.   Land owned or controlled by a unit of local government that is
designated by the unit of local government for use solely or primarily for
children’s recreation; and
            2.   Village recreational areas, including, but not limited to, a
forest preserve, conservation area, jogging trail, hiking trail, water park,
swimming pool, soccer field, baseball field or school playground under the
jurisdiction of a unit of local government.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly loiter
in any village park, as defined herein.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly loiter
on a public way within 300 feet of a village park, as defined herein.
   (B)   If a police officer reasonably believes that a child sex offender is
in a village park in violation of this section, the officer shall require the
child sex offender to provide his or her name, address and telephone number. If
it is established that the individual is a child sex offender, then the officer
shall notify the child sex offender that he or she is in violation of this
section.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
134.05, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ZONING REGULATIONS
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.04   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition
   
150.31   Prohibitions
   
150.32   Determination; notice
   
150.33   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.34   Emergency
   
150.35   Special assessments
Building Inspector
   
150.50   Power and authority
   
150.51   Right of entry
   
150.52   Permit cards
   
150.53   Time of inspection
   
150.54   Appeal from decision
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the Village Clerk an application for a building permit.
The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the Village
Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal
description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take
place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the
estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect and contractor and such other
information as may be requested thereon. The application, plans and
specifications so filed with the Village Clerk shall be checked and examined by
the Board of Trustees, and if they are found to be in conformity with the
requirements of this chapter and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the
Board of Trustees shall authorize the Village Clerk to issue the applicant a
permit upon payment of a permit fee set by the Board by resolution. Whenever
there is a discrepancy between permit application procedures contained herein
and those contained in any building code adopted by reference, the provisions
contained herein shall govern.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the village’s corporate limits or extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the
permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.04 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the village shall protect all
excavations, exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by
suitable barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The
failure, neglect or refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
Building Inspector or other village law enforcement authority may stop all work
upon the buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the village without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Village Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the Board of Trustees may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall refer the application to the Board of Trustees
or its designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is
to be moved. Upon approval, the Village Clerk shall issue the permit, provided
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Board of Trustees, and conditioned upon moving the
building without doing damage to any private or village property, is filed with
the Village Clerk prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or lines
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires or lines relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the village, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the village utility departments, who
shall proceed on behalf of the village and at the expense of the mover to make
such disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.16 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond,
cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation
or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money deposited for the purpose
of defraying the expense of correcting the conditions. If the expense of
correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the deposit
set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees may recover the excess
expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.32 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms.
 
   “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
   “You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe building)
on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a
nuisance after inspection by ________________________________. The causes for this
decision are ________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the
date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so. Appeal of this
determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of Appeals,
by filing with the Village Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this
notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon the orders
of the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
unsafe building.
§ 150.33 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within ten days
from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board of
Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If, after the 60-day period, the owner has not begun work, the Board
of Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the
property owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication, during which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees
shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of, or a levy of
attachment upon, any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.34 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.35 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.50 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the village official who shall have the duty
of enforcing all village building and housing regulations, if any. He or she
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the village as
often as necessary to ensure compliance with all village ordinances. He or she
shall have the power and authority to order, at the direction of the Board of
Trustees, all work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which
violates any provisions prescribed in any village building and housing
regulations. He or she shall, at the direction of the Board of Trustees, issue
permission to continue any construction, alteration or relocation when the
Board of Trustees is satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop
order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one
hour. This written order may be served by any village police officer. In the
event that the village has building and housing regulations and the Board of
Trustees fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the chief village law
enforcement officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.51 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.52 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card, which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on the
principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.53 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or
his or her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or
structure and shall either approve that portion of the construction as
completed or shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work
fails to comply with the requirements of the village code.
      (1)   Foundation inspection shall be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary forms erected.
      (2)   Frame inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-
blocking and backing is in place and all pipes, chimneys and vents are
complete.
      (3)   Final inspection shall be made after the building is completed and
ready for occupancy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do work or cause work to be
done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without the
written approval of the Building Inspector.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.54 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   (A)   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any
village building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the
Building Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the
Building Inspector is too short or that conditions peculiar to a particular
building make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements
prescribed by the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or
her agent or the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the
decision or order of the Building Inspector has been made.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall hear all appeals and shall have the power
and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of the
Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any remedy
which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity.
   (C)   Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the
reasons why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where
it is evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
CHAPTER 151: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Jurisdiction
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Definitions
   
151.005   Generally
   
151.006   Zoning affects every building and use
   
151.007   Yard and lot reduction prohibited
   
151.008   Minimum requirements
   
151.009   Non-conformities
Establishment and Designation of Districts
   
151.025   Planning Commission recommendations
   
151.026   Districts created
   
151.027   Official zoning map
   
151.028   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
Zoning Districts
   
151.040   AGR Agriculture Residential District
   
151.041   R-1 Residential Single-Family District
   
151.042   R-2 Residential Single- and Multi-Family District
   
151.043   R-3 Residential Single- and Multi-Family District
   
151.044   C-1 General Commercial District
   
151.045   C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
151.046   I Industrial District
Special Use Permits
   
151.060   General
   
151.061   Procedures
   
151.062   Salvage or junk yard
   
151.063   Landfills and sanitary landfills
   
151.064   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service
Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
151.075   Generally
   
151.076   Application requirements
   
151.077   General site and design standards
   
151.078   Construction and operations
   
151.079   Safety measures
   
151.080   Discontinuation and decommissioning
   
151.081   Definitions
Parking Regulations
   
151.095   General provisions
   
151.096   Off-street parking requirements
   
151.097   Off-street loading requirements
Accessory Uses and Supplemental Regulations
   
151.110   Accessory buildings
   
151.111   Home occupations
   
151.112   Manufactured homes
   
151.113   Yard regulations
   
151.114   Exceptions to height regulations
   
151.115   Exceptions to lot size requirements
   
151.116   Mobile home parks
   
151.117   Fence regulations
   
151.118   Sign regulations
Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
151.130   Creation; membership
   
151.131   Meetings
   
151.132   Interpretations and variances
   
151.133   Procedures for requesting a variance
   
151.134   Appeals from the Board of Zoning Adjustment
Administrative Provisions, Enforcement, and Fees
   
151.145   Zoning Administrator
   
151.146   Building permits required
   
151.147   Certification of occupancy required
   
151.148   Schedule of fees
   
151.149   Amendments
   
151.150   Complaints regarding violations
   
151.151   Remedies
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
App. A: Official zoning map of corporate limits
   
App. B: Official zoning map of planning jurisdiction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be adopted by ordinance, and cited as the zoning
regulations of the village.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.002 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the planning jurisdiction
of the village, as established on the map entitled “The Official Zoning Map of
the Village of Pender, Nebraska.” The jurisdiction includes the zoning areas
within and up to one-half mile beyond the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.003 PURPOSE.
   In pursuance of the authority conferred by Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-914 as
amended, this chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and welfare of the present and future
inhabitants in the village by regulating and restricting the height, number of
stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the size of yards, courts,
and other open spaces, and the location and use of buildings, structures and
land for trade, industry, residence, or other purposes in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and the zoning maps adopted herewith.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OF BUILDING. A subordinate building or use which customarily
is incidental to that of the main or principal building or use of the premises.
Customary accessory uses include, but are not limited to, tennis courts,
swimming pools, detached garages, garden houses, antenna/satellite dishes,
amateur radio, or land mobile towers of less than 100 feet, and residential,
agricultural, and recreational storage sheds. Garages or other accessory uses
attached to the principal structure shall be considered a part thereof and meet
the requirements of the principal structure.
   AGRICULTURAL FARM OR OPERATION. A tract of land or a combination of tracts
of land utilized primarily for agricultural purposes which either singularly or
jointly consist of at least 20 acres and which produces $1,000 or more of farm
products each year,
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to the property abutting thereon.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. An enclosed structure, anchored to permanent foundation, and
having exterior or party walls and a roof, designed for the shelter of persons,
animals, or property. When divided by other than common or contiguous walls,
each portion or section of such building shall be regarded as a separate
building, except that two buildings connected by a breezeway shall be deemed
one building. BUILDING includes “structure.”
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance to the highest point of the roofs; to
the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and the
ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs, measured from the curb level if the
building is not more than ten feet from the front lot line or from the grade in
all other cases.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f4b2578eb901cf060e298ada97463b7ab036c15d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1297.png]
 
   CAMP GROUNDS. Any premises where two or more camping units are parked/placed
for camping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for supplying to the
public, camping space for two or more camping units for camping purposes, which
include any buildings, structures, vehicles, or enclosures used or intended for
use or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of transient campers.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility which is or should be licensed by the State
Department of Health and Human Services under the authority of Neb. RS 71-1908
through 71-1918, as provided and defined under 474 Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 6,
§ 002.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A private home providing care (for children) for
compensation which is or should be licensed by the State Department of Health
and Human Services.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is allowed in a zone when specified conditions
have been complied with as identified for each district as a conditional use. A
CONDITIONAL USE permit is reviewed and issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other and containing three
or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling having accommodations for and occupied
by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two dwelling units
entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING UNIT. Consists of one or more rooms which are arranged, designed,
or used as a separate living quarters by a single-family or other group of
persons living together as a household or a person living alone. Individual
bathrooms and complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall always
be included for each DWELLING UNIT.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons for the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose or purposes.
   FARM RESIDENCE. Residential dwellings located on a farm, including mobile
homes appurtenant to agricultural operations including the living quarters for
persons employed on the premises.
   FARMSTEAD. Any building site that includes at least two buildings that have
combined assessed valuation for tax purposes of at least $5,000 as of the date
on which this chapter go into effect.
   GROUP HOME. A facility which houses more than five but less than 16 persons
who are unrelated by blood, marriage, or adoption. Those facilities may offer,
in addition to lodging, accommodations, meals, resident support services,
counseling, guidance, and varying levels of medical care. Such facility shall
be licensed or approved by the state or other appropriate agency.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or activity carried on within the dwelling or
accessory building by a member of the family residing on the premises, which
occupation or activity is incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy
and does not change the residential character nor infringe upon the right of
neighboring residents to enjoy a peaceful occupancy of their homes.
   LIVESTOCK, CONFINEMENT FACILITIES/OPERATIONS. Any building(s), lot(s), pen
(s), pool(s), or pond(s) or other confined spaces, which normally are not used
for raising crops or grazing animals, which are designed and/or used for on-
going confined raising, feeding, or management of animals for more than 180
consecutive days.
   LANDFILL. A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing solid
wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading,
compacting to the smallest volume, and applying cover material over all exposed
waste at the end of each operating day and in conformance with the requirements
of the State Department of Health and Human Service System.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupation by a use permitted
in this chapter and fronting upon a street or road.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets or roads at their
intersection.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street or road.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot of which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
Office of the Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance on a horizontal plane between the side lot lines of
a lot, measured at right angles to the line establishing the lot depth at the
established building setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place
for human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent
hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site,
which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or
axles, and which bears a label certifying that it was built to compliance with
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. §§ 3280
et seq., promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, or a modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557 bearing
the seal of the Department of Health and Human Service System.
   MOBILE HOME. A year-round, transportable structures which is a single-family
dwelling unit suitable for permanent, more than 30 days of living quarters,
more than eight feet wide and 40 feet in length and built to be towed on its
own chassis with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities. This portable dwelling may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or two or more units, separately tow able but designed to be joined as one
integral unit. Nothing in this definition shall be construed so as to include
refabricated, modular, precut dwelling units, or those manufactured in sections
or parts away from the site and transported thereto for assembly.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area of land which two or more mobile homes are
parked, connected to utilities, and used by one or more persons for living or
sleeping purposes. A mobile home parked in this area can either be placed on
permanent foundation or supported only by its wheels, jacks, blocks, or
skirtings or a combination of these devices. A MOBILE HOME PARK includes any
premises set apart for supplying to the public parking space, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes for one or more mobile homes, connected to
utilities and used by one or more persons living, or sleeping purposes and
shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or enclosure used or
intended for use as part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MODULAR HOME. Any dwelling whose construction consists entirely of or the
major portions of its construction consist of a unit or units not fabricated on
the final site for the dwelling units, which units are movable or portable
until placed on a permanent foundation and connected to utilities. All MODULAR
HOMES shall bear a label certifying that it was built to compliance with the
State Department of Health and Human Services System as established in Neb. RS
71-1557.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a recorded subdivision
or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded prior to the approval date
of this chapter and neither said lot nor parcel complies with the lot width or
area requirements for any permitted uses in the district in which it is
located.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. An existing structure which does not comply with
the lot coverage, height, or yard requirements which are applicable to new
structures in the zoning district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. An existing use of a structure or of land which does not
comply with the use regulation applicable to new uses in the zoning district in
which it is located.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or road and permitting ingress and egress of an automobile.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility which accepts salvage material limited to
paper, aluminum foil, containers made of glass, plastic, metal, aluminum, and
paper; and similar household wastes; no hazardous material as defined by state
and federal law is accepted; there is no wrecking or dismantling of salvage
material and no salvage material is held outside a building.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A collection point for small refuse items, such
as bottles and newspapers, located either in a container or small structure.
   SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged metals,
building materials, paper, textiles, used plumbing fixtures, abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicles or parts thereof, and other used materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, or cleaned; and places or yards for the
storage of salvaged metal, materials, and equipment; but not including pawn
shops and establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used cars or
trucks presently in operable condition, boats or trailers presently in operable
condition, and used furniture and household equipment in usable condition and
not including the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged material as part
of manufacturing operations.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A lot or parcel of land used primarily for the disposal,
abandonment, dumping, burial, or burning of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse,
junk, discarded machinery, or motor vehicles, or parts thereof, or other waste,
and which is in conformance with the requirements of the State Department of
Health and Human Service System.
   SANITARY TRANSFER STATION. A collection point for temporary storage of
refuse. No processing of refuse would be allowed. The transfer station must be
in conformance with the requirements of the State Department of Health and
Human Service System.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A written permit issued with authorization of the
applicable governing body. The special permit provides permission under
specific conditions to make certain special uses of land in certain zoning
districts as stipulated under permitted special uses in each of the district
zoning regulations.
   STREET. All property acquired or dedicated to the public and accepted by the
appropriate governmental agencies for street purposes.
   STREET, CENTER LINE. A line midway between street lines.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and the
contiguous street. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a structure
including foundations, bearing walls, or partitions, columns, beams, girders,
or any structural change in the roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, but not including fences or public items such as
utility poles, street light fixtures, street signs, bridges, and culverts.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING UNITS. Include travel trailers, campers, or self-contained
motor homes not exceeding eight feet in width, nor 32 feet in length.
   TOWNHOUSE. One of a group or row of not less than two nor more than 12
attached, single-family dwellings designed and built as a single structure
facing upon a street in which the individual TOWNHOUSE may or may not be owned
separately. For the purpose of the side yard regulations, the structure
containing the row or group of TOWNHOUSES shall be considered as one building
occupying a single lot.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter, where such VARIANCE
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property, and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship.
   YARD. A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure or portion of a structure; provided, however, that fences,
walls, poles, posts, and other customary yards accessories, ornaments, and
furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to the district regulations.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending from the front lot line adjoining a public
street to the front of the building between side lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f4b2578eb901cf060e298ada97463b7ab036c15d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1299.jpg]
 
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines and measured
horizontally at right angles to the rear lot line from the rear lot to the
nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, REQUIRED. The required minimum open space between the property line
and the yard line. The REQUIRED YARD shall contain no building or structure
other than the projection of the usual steps, or open porches, or as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between a building and the side lot line measured
horizontally at right angles to the side lot line from the side lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized and empowered by the
governing body to administer the requirements of this chapter.
   ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The legally appointed board empowered to hear
and decide appeals from, and to provide interpretations of, the terms of this
chapter and official maps as defined within this chapter and in accordance with
the laws of the state.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area delineated on a zoning map for which uniform use
regulations are specified.
   ZONING MAP. A map or maps officially enacted by the governing body as part
of this chapter showing the boundaries of a zoning district or districts, a
copy or copies of which, certified to have been enacted as provided by law, is
filed in the office of the Village Clerk as an official record of the village.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.005 GENERALLY.
   This chapter within each district shall be the minimum regulations and shall
apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land, except as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.006 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of this chapter
specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007 YARD AND LOT REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced by private action in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
set herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter
shall meet the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.008 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Where applicable, municipal,
state, or federal standards which are more restrictive than those contained
herein, the more restrictive standards shall apply.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.009 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Non-conforming lots of record. The Zoning Administrator may issue a
permit for any non-conforming lot of record (in association with §
151.115) provided that:
      (1)   The lot is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time when the
creation of a lot of such size and width at such location would not have been
prohibited;
      (2)   The lot has remained in separate and individual ownership from
adjoining tracts of land continuously during the entire time that the creation
of such lot has been prohibited by this chapter; and
      (3)   The lot can meet all required yard regulations for the district in
which it is located.
   (B)   Non-conforming structures.
      (1)   Authority to continue. Any structure which is devoted to a use
which is permitted in the zoning district in which it is located, but which is
located on a lot which does not comply with the use regulations and/or the
applicable yard and height regulations may be continued, so long as it remains
otherwise lawful.
      (2)   Enlargement, repair, and alterations. Any non-conforming structure
may be enlarged, maintained, repaired, remodeled, or rebuilt; provided,
however, that no such enlargement, maintenance, repair, or remodeling shall
either create any additional non-conformity or increase the degree of existing
non-conformity of all or any part of such structure.
      (3)   Damage or destruction. In the event any non-conforming structure is
damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than 75% of its
assessed fair market value, such structure shall not be restored unless it
shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which it
is located. When a structure is damaged to the extent of 75% or less of its
assessed fair market value, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a
building permit is obtained within six months, and restoration is actually
begun one year after the date of such partial destruction and is diligently
pursued to completion.
      (4)   Moving. No non-conforming structure shall be moved in whole or in
part for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other
lot unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses.
      (1)   Authority to continue. Any lawfully existing non-conforming use of
part or all of a structure or any lawfully existing non-conforming use of land,
not involving a structure or only involving a structure which is accessory to
such use or land, may be continued, so long as otherwise lawful.
      (2)   Ordinary repair and maintenance.
         (a)   Normal maintenance and incidental repair, or replacement,
installation, or relocation of non-bearing walls, non-bearing partitions,
fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, water, and/or waste disposal systems, may be
performed on any structure or system that is devoted in whole or in part to a
non-conforming use.
         (b)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a structure in accordance
with an order of a public official in charge of protecting the public safety
who declares such structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe
condition.
      (3)   Extension. A non-conforming use shall not be extended, enlarged, or
increased in intensity. Such prohibited activities shall include, without being
limited to the extension of such use to any structure or land area other than
that occupied by such non-conforming use on the effective date of this chapter
(or on the effective date of subsequent amendments hereto that cause such use
to become non-conforming).
      (4)   Enlargement. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
non-conforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless such
structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      (5)   Damage or destruction. In the event that a non-conforming building
or use is damaged to the extent of more than 75% of its reasonable replacement
value, the property shall conform to the zone in which it is located.
      (6)   Moving. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a non-
conforming use and non-conforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in
part for any distance whatever, to any location on the same or any other lot,
unless the entire structure and the use thereof or the use of land shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located after being so moved.
      (7)   Change in use. If no external structural alterations are made which
will expand the area or change the dimensions of the existing structure, any
non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to
another non-conforming use provided that the governing body after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, by making findings in the specific
case, shall find that the proposed use is more appropriate to the district than
the existing non-conforming use. More appropriate shall mean creating less
traffic, noise, glare, odor, or other characteristics of the proposed use. In
permitting such change, the governing body, may require appropriate conditions
and safeguards to protect surrounding areas and properties. Once such use has
changed, it may no longer be returned to the original use or any other less
appropriate use.
      (8)   Abandonment or discontinuance. When a non-conforming use is
discontinued or abandoned, for a period of 12 consecutive months, (as per Neb.
RS 19-904.01), such use shall not thereafter be re-established or resumed, and
any subsequent use or occupancy of such land shall comply with the regulations
of the zoning district in which such land is located.
      (9)   Non-conforming accessory uses. No use which is accessory to a
principal non-conforming use shall continue after such principal use shall
cease or terminate.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS
§ 151.025 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   It shall be a purpose of the Planning Commission to recommend the boundaries
of the various original districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced
therein. The Planning Commission shall make a preliminary report and hold
public hearings thereon before submitting its final report, and the governing
body shall not hold its public hearings or take action until it has received
the final report of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.026 DISTRICTS CREATED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, there are hereby created the following
zoning districts, as named and described in §§
151.040 through
151.046:
   (A)   AGR Agriculture Residential District;
   (B)   R-1 Residential Single-Family District;
   (C)   R-2 Residential Single- and Multi-Family District;
   (D)   R-3 Residential Mobile Home District;
   (E)   C-1 General Commercial District;
   (F)   C-2 Highway Commercial District; and
   (G)   I Industrial.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.027 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the district are shown upon maps, which are made a
part hereof by reference, which map(s) are designated as the village zoning
district map, dated _______ and signed by the Mayor and attested by the Village
Clerk and hereinafter referred to as the official zoning maps.
   (B)   The signed copy of the zoning map(s) containing the zoning districts
designated at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be maintained in the
office of the Village Clerk for the use and benefit of the public.
   (C)   (1)   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes
are made in the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official
zoning map(s), such changes shall be entered on the appropriate part of the
official zoning map(s) promptly after the amendment has been approved by the
governing body, with an entry on the official zoning map(s) as follows:
      “On (date), by official action of the Board of Trustees, the following
change was made in the official zoning map(s) (brief description of the nature
of the change), which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the
Village Clerk.”
      (2)   No amendment to this chapter, which involves matter portrayed on
the official zoning map(s), shall become effective until after such change and
entry have been made on said map(s).
   (D)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map(s)
or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   In the event that the official zoning map(s) become damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret, the Board of Trustees, may, by
ordinance, adopt a new official zoning map(s) which shall supersede the prior
official zoning map(s).
      (2)   The new official zoning map(s) may correct drafting or other errors
or omissions in the prior official zoning map(s), but no such correction shall
have the effect of amending the original official zoning map(s) or any
subsequent amendment thereof.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.028 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map(s), the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village limits shall
be construed as following such village limits;
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks;
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extension of features indicated
in divisions (A) through (D) above shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the official zoning map(s) shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
   (F)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map(s), or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Board of
Zoning Adjustment shall interpret the district boundaries.
   (G)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of pass of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Adjustment
may permit, as an exception, the extension of the regulations for either
portion of the lot not to exceed 150 feet beyond the district line into the
remaining portion of the lot.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 151.040 AGR AGRICULTURE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended for general agricultural purposes
within one-half mile of the village.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, ranch and farm residences;
      (2)   General farming and ranching activities, excluding any expansion of
existing or development of livestock confinement facilities/operations;
      (3)   Public facilities and utility distribution systems;
      (4)   One additional single-family, ranch, or farm residence for the
purpose of housing relatives or agricultural workers; and
      (5)   Churches, places of worship, and cemeteries.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as special uses;
      (2)   Home occupations in accordance with §
151.111; and
      (3)   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural produce grown on the
agricultural farm or operation.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premise may be used for the
following purposes in the AGR Agricultural Residential District if a special
permit for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
151.060 through
151.064:
      (1)   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service in
conformance with §
151.064;
      (2)   Sewage disposal and water systems, including agricultural
irrigation wells;
      (3)   Public and private uses including parks, playgrounds, golf courses,
campgrounds, recreation uses, riding stables, dude ranches, public utilities,
and utility distribution system;
      (4)   Flood, erosion, and sediment control projects;
      (5)   Broadcast towers and stations, including amateur radio or land
mobile towers of more than 100 feet;
      (6)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (7)   Salvage or junk yard in accordance with §
151.062;
      (8)   Mineral extraction, which shall include the following: oil wells,
sand, and gravel extraction and quarries;
      (9)   Expansion of existing livestock confinement facilities up to a
maximum of 50 head of livestock. Livestock not confined for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer shall be considered grazing livestock and not
defined as a confinement facility;
      (10)   Rural subdivisions with individual parcels less than three acres
in. accordance with the State Department of Environmental Quality Title 124 and
Department of Health and Human Services Regulations and with a shared or
community drinking water and sanitary sewer system, then the minimum lot area
of individual parcels may be reduced to one-half acre; or
      (11)   Commercial wind energy conversion system in accordance with §
151.075 through
151.081.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specially permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the AGR Agricultural Residential District.
   (F)   Special regulation. Provisions must be made for disposal of wastes in
accordance with local and state regulations.
   (G)   Minimum lot requirements. The minimum lot area for AGR uses shall be
three acres.
   (H)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a minimum front yard of not less than a
depth of 30 feet, measured from the existing road way right-of-way line.
      (2)   Rear yard. No limitations, unless abutting a residential district
then the minimum rear yard shall be 15 feet.
      (3)   Side yard. No limitations, unless abutting a residential district
then the minimum side yard shall be ten feet.
   (I)   Maximum height. No limitation.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs within the AGR Agricultural Residential
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
151.118.
   (K)   Utility requirements. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, all dwellings hereafter erected, enlarged, or reconstructed in a AGR
Agricultural District shall conform to the following regulations.
      (1)   No waste absorption field (septic tank, cesspools, and the like)
shall be constructed any closer than 50 feet from any adjacent property line.
      (2)   There shall be no waste absorption field located closer than 75
feet from any other residential structure.
      (3)   There shall be no waste absorption field located closer than 50
feet from a water well provided; however, where geology and subsurface
conditions and topography would indicate that seepage could reach the well
supply, a greater distance shall be required.
      (4)   An individual residential waste absorption field shall contain a
minimum of 10,000 square feet, exclusive of the area required by structure. The
entire tract shall contain not less than three acres.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.041 R-1 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide for residential uses
consisting primarily of single-family dwelling units. Multi-family structures
are permitted by a special permit process set forth in division (D) below.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Manufactured homes which comply with the provisions of §
151.112;
      (4)   Public and parochial schools;
      (5)   Public uses, including, but not limited to, public parks,
playgrounds, recreational uses, fire stations, public utilities, and utility
distribution systems; and
      (6)   Places of worship such as churches and synagogues.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
151.111; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to permitted
uses and structures.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purpose in the R-1 Residential District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
151.060 through
151.064.
      (1)   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service m
conformance with §
151.064;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (3)   Child care homes and child care centers;
      (4)   Hospitals, medical clinics, and other medical facilities;
      (5)   Mortuaries;
      (6)   Museum and art galleries;
      (7)   Nursing homes;
      (8)   Public and private golf courses;
      (9)   Retirement homes;
      (10)   Townhouses; and
      (11)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-1 Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
      (1)   Generally:
 
              Lot Area  Required Lot Required   Required Side Rear Yard Height
              (Sq. Ft.) Width        Front Yard Yard          (Feet)    (Feet)
                        (Feet)       (Feet)     (Feet)
Single-family 7,000     50           30         7             25        35
dwelling
Two-family    3,500 per 50           25         7             25        35
dwelling      family
Multi- family 2,200 per 50           25         7             15        45
dwelling      family
Other
permitted     7,000     50           25         7             25        35
uses
 
      (2)   Buildings on corner lots shall provide front yard setbacks of 25
feet on one street side and 15 feet on the other front yard and designate
remaining yards as one rear and one side yard;
      (3)   Building and structures shall not exceed two and one half stories
in height; and
      (4)   The side yard setback between individual units of two-family
dwellings may be reduced to zero, if a one-hour fire rated constructed common
wall between units starting at the basement level and continuing through to the
roofline is maintained.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-1 Residential Zoning
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §§
151.095 through
151.097. In addition, semi-trucks, semi-trailers, and gooseneck trailers shall
not be allowed to be parked within the R-1 Residential District.
   (H)   Fence regulations. Fences within the R-1 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
151.117.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-1 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
151.118.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.042 R-2 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE- AND MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this District to provide for single- and
multi-family residential uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Manufactured homes which comply with the provisions of §
151.112;
      (3)   Two-family dwellings;
      (4)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (5)   Community buildings;
      (6)   Public uses, including, but not limited to, public parks,
playgrounds, recreational uses, fire stations, public elementary and high
schools, public utilities, and utility distribution systems; and
      (7)   Places of worship such as churches and synagogues.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
151.111; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the R-2 Residential District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
151.060 through
151.063:
      (1)   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service in
conformance with §
151.064;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (3)   Child care homes and child care centers;
      (4)   Clubs, fraternities, lodges, and meeting places of a non-commercial
nature;
      (5)   Communication and utility buildings and uses;
      (6)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (7)   Hospitals, medical clinics, and other medical facilities; and
      (8)   Public and/or private golf courses.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-2 Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
      (1)   Generally:
 
              Lot Area  Lot Width Required Front Required  Required Rear Height
              (Sq. Ft.) (Feet)    Yard           Side Yard Yard          (Feet)
                                  (Feet)         (Feet)    (Feet)
Single-family 6,000     50        25             7         15            35
dwelling
Two-family    3,500 per 25        25             7         15            35
dwelling      family
Multi-family  2,200 per 50        25             7         15            45
dwelling      family
Other
permitted     7,000     50        25             7         15            35
uses
 
      (2)   Buildings on corner lots with a width of 50 feet or less shall
provide a second frontage on the street side of not less than seven feet;
provided that the buildable width need not be reduced to less than 28 feet,
yards remaining shall be designated side yards each with a minimum depth of
five feet.
      (3)   Buildings on corner lots with a width of 50 feet or greater shall
provide a second frontage on the street side of not less than 15 feet, yards
remaining shall be designated side yards with a minimum depth of five feet.
      (4)   Building and structures shall not exceed three stories in height.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-2 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
151.095 through
151.097. In addition, semi-trucks, semi-trailers, and gooseneck trailers shall
not be allowed to be parked within the R-2 Residential District.
   (H)   Fence regulations. Fences within the R-2 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
151.117.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-2 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
151.118.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.043 R-3 RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this District to provide for mobile homes
within mobile home parks and the allowance of all manufactured housing types.
Mobile home parks are considered as a residential use and should be located in
areas where services and amenities are available.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right: mobile homes within mobile home parks m accordance
with the provisions of §
151.116 
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
151.111; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures,
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the R-2 Residential District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
151.060 through
151.064:
      (1)   Community buildings;
      (2)   Public uses, including, but not limited to, public parks,
playgrounds, recreational uses, fire stations, public elementary and high
schools, public utilities, and utility distribution systems;
      (3)   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service in
conformance with §
151.064; and
      (4)   Communication and utility buildings and uses.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-3 Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
      (1)   Generally:
 
            Lot Area  Lot Width Required   Required Side Required Rear Height
            (Sq. Ft.) (Feet)    Front Yard Yard          Yard          (Feet)
                                (Feet)     (Feet)        (Feet)
Mobile home 4,000     45        15         7             10            35
 
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-3 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
151.095 through
151.097. In addition, semi-trucks, semi-trailers, and gooseneck trailers shall
not be allowed to be parked within the R-3 Residential District.
   (H)   Fence regulations. Fences within the R-3 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
151.117.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the R-3 Residential District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
151.118.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.044 C-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is designed to provide for a wide range of
retail, office, amusement, and service uses normally found in a Central
Business District. Highest density and intensity of use are permitted in this
District.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Apartments on floors other than ground floor;
      (2)   Automobile sales and services;
      (3)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (4)   Bakery;
      (5)   Banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and finance
companies;
      (6)   Barbershops, beauty parlors, and shoeshine shops;
      (7)   Business offices;
      (8)   Child care homes and centers;
      (9)   Commercial recreation facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses, and similar uses);
      (10)   Convenience store or filling station;
      (11)   Detached banking facilities (ATM);
      (12)   Dry cleaning or laundry establishments;
      (13)   Food service, restaurants, and taverns;
      (14)   Food storage lockers;
      (15)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (16)   Garden centers;
      (17)   Motels and hotels;
      (18)   Museums and art galleries;
      (19)   Office buildings;
      (20)   Parking lots and other off-street parking facilities;
      (21)   Personal and professional services;
      (22)   Photography studios;
      (23)   Private schools, including, but not limited to, business or
commercial schools, and dance or music academies;
      (24)   Public and private charitable institutions;
      (25)   Public parks, buildings, and grounds;
      (26)   Public uses of an administrative, public service, or cultural type
including city, county, state, or federal administrative centers and courts,
libraries, police and fire stations, and other public buildings, structures,
and facilities;
      (27)   Retail store or business;
      (28)   Public utility facilities;
      (29)   Sales and showrooms, including service facilities and rental of
equipment, provided all displays and merchandise are within the enclosure walls
of the buildings;
      (30)   Service stations; and
      (31)   Stores or shops for the sale of goods at retail and/or wholesale.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted: accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures
permitted as special uses.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the C-1 Commercial Residential Business District if a
special permit for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
151.060 through
151.064:
      (1)   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service in
conformance with §
151.064;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast guest home;
      (5)   Recycling center; and
      (6)   Mini-storage facilities.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the C-1 Commercial Business District.
   (F)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage, or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot within a residential district
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring barrier permanently maintained at
least six feet in height.
      (2)   Open storage of materials attendant to a permitted use or special
permit use shall be permitted only within an area surrounded or screened by a
solid wall or fence.
   (G)   Prohibited uses. No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment,
or materials shall be used which are found by the village to be objectionable
to persons living or working in the vicinity by reasons of odor, fumes, dust,
smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, noise, vibrations, illumination, glare, or
unsightliness or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
   (H)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
      (1)   Generally:
 
              Lot Area  Lot Width Required   Required     Required Rear Height
              (Sq. Ft.) (Feet)    Front Yard Side Yard    Yard          (Feet)
                                  (Feet)     (Feet)       (Feet)
                                             0 or 10 when
Permitted     3,500     25        0          abutting a   0             45
                                             residential
                                             district
Multi- family 2,250 per                      7 or 7 1-1/
dwelling      family    50        25         2 on corner  15            45
                                             lots
 
   (I)   Fence regulations. Fences within the C-1 General Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
151.117.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs within the C-1 General Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
151.118.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.045 C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The C-2 Highway Commercial District is intended for the
purpose of servicing highway travelers and providing limited commercial
services. Off-street parking is required in order to reduce possible adverse
effects on adjacent properties.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Automobile sales;
      (2)   Automobile wash facilities;
      (3)   Churches and other religious institutions;
      (4)   Construction sales and services;
      (5)   Commercial operations and businesses, intended for the purpose of
servicing travel and recreational users;
      (6)   Commercial recreational facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses, and similar uses);
      (7)   Convenience store or filling station;
      (8)   Detached banking facilities (ATM);
      (9)   Electric and telephone substations;
      (10)   Farm implement sales and services;
      (11)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (12)   Irrigation equipment sales and services;
      (13)   Mini-storage facilities;
      (14)   Mobile homes sales;
      (15)   Motels, including accessory service uses, such as swimming pools,
liquor stores, and restaurants;
      (16)   Restaurants and cafes;
      (17)   Service stations;
      (18)   Single-family homes;
      (19)   Stores or shops for sale of goods at retail;
      (20)   Transportation warehousing;
      (21)   Trucks and freight terminals;
      (22)   Utilities, including shops and offices; and
      (23)   Medical clinics.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted: accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures
permitted as special uses.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the C-2 Highway Commercial District if a special use
permit for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
151.060 through
151.064:
      (1)   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service in
conformance with §
151.064;
      (2)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (3)   Facilities for the commercial storage or sale of fertilizer or
toxic or flammable agriculture chemicals;
      (4)   Radio studios, transmitters, and antenna; and
      (5)   Recycling centers.
   (E)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   All business, service, repair, processing, storage, or merchandise
display on property abutting or facing a lot within a residential district
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building unless screened from the
residential district by a sight-obscuring barrier permanently maintained at
least six feet in height.
      (2)   Open storage of materials attendant to a permitted use or special
permit use shall be permitted only within an area surrounded or screened by a
solid wall or fence.
   (F)   Prohibited uses. All other uses and structures which are not
specifically permitted or permissible as special uses shall be prohibited from
the C-2 Highway Commercial District.
   (G)   Height and areas regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
 
               Lot Area  Lot Width Required Front Required  Rear Yard Height
               (Sq. Ft.) (Feet)    Yard           Side Yard (Feet)    (Feet)
                                   (Feet)         (Feet)
Permitted uses 7,500     50        25             7         20        35
 
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the C-2 Highway Commercial
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §§
151.095 through
151.097.
   (I)   Fence regulations. Fences within the C-2 Highway Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
151.117.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs within the C-2 Highway Commercial District
shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
151.118.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.046 I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is designed to provide for a wide range of
industrial and related uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Agriculture, excluding the expansion of existing or development of
commercial livestock facilities/operations;
      (2)   Animal care;
      (3)   Automobile sales and services;
      (4)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (5)   Bottling works;
      (6)   Building material sales and ready-mix concrete plants;
      (7)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing, or sheet metal shops;
      (8)   Grain storage;
      (9)   Construction sales and services;
      (10)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants;
      (11)   Farm implementation sales and services;
      (12)   Farm produce sales;
      (13)   Food service, restaurants and taverns;
      (14)   Freight and truck terminals;
      (15)   Frozen food lockers;
      (16)   Furniture warehouses;
      (17)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (18)   Groceries, retail and wholesale;
      (19)   Light manufacturing operations, providing that such use is not
noxious by reason of vibration or noise beyond the confines of the building, or
by the emission of particulate, fumes, gas, odor, or smoke;
      (20)   Machinery sales and storage lots;
      (21)   Mini-storage facilities;
      (22)   Mobile and modular home sales and manufacturing;
      (23)   Newspaper publishing plants;
      (24)   Public and quasi-public uses of an educational, recreational or
religious type including public and parochial elementary schools and junior
high schools, high schools; private non-profit schools, churches, parsonages,
and other religious institutions; parks and playgrounds;
      (25)   Public utility and public service uses;
      (26)   Transportation warehousing;
      (27)   Warehouse or storage houses;
      (28)   Wholesale sales and services; and
      (29)   Any similar uses that are determined by the Board of Trustees
after referral to and recommendation by the Planning Commission to be of an
industrial use similar to the above listed uses.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to permitted uses and structures.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the I Industrial District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
151.060 through
151.064:
      (1)   Alternative energy systems to supplement public utility service in
conformance with §
151.064;
      (2)   Junk and salvage yard (in conformance with
151.063);
      (3)   Recycling center;
      (4)   Ethanol and/or alcohol plants; and
      (5)   Landfills and sanitary landfills (in conformance with §
151.062).
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the I Industrial District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
      (1)   Generally:
 
          Lot Area  Lot Width Required Front Required    Required Rear Height
          (Sq. Ft.) (Feet)    Yard           Side Yard   Yard          (Feet)
                              (Feet)         (Feet)      (Feet)
                                             0, 10 when
Permitted 10,000    50        35             abutting    45            35
uses                                         residential
                                             district
 
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the I-1 Industrial District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
151.095 through
151.097.
   (H)   Fence regulations. Fences within the I-1 Industrial District shall be
in conformance with the provisions of §
151.117.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs within the I-1 Industrial District shall be in
conformance with the provisions of §
151.118.
   (J)   Use limitations. All operations, activities, and storage shall be
conducted entirely inside of a building, or buildings, unless the nearest point
of such operation or activity is more than 200 feet from the boundary of any
other zoning district other than an I District and except that storage may be
maintained outside the building and side yards or rear yards of such storage
area is separated from public streets and other property by screening of not
less than six feet in height. If a lot in an Industrial District adjoins a
residential district, screening shall be provided at the lot lines sufficient
to protect, on a year-round basis, the privacy of adjoining residential uses.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
SPECIAL USE PERMIT
§ 151.060 GENERALLY.
   The Board of Trustees may authorize by special permit after public hearing,
any of the following buildings or uses designated in this chapter as permitted
special uses.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.061 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Such application shall be in writing, filed at the office of the
Village Clerk, state the proposed location and use of the property, and such
other relevant matters as may be requested by the governing body. Upon receipt
of such application, the Zoning Administrator shall forward the application to
the Planning Commission for its recommendation. Upon hearing, the Planning
Commission shall forward its recommendation to the Board of Trustees, within 30
days. Upon hearing, the Board of Trustees may approve or deny the application
in whole or in part, or prescribe conditions for such use of the property. No
special use permit shall become effective until after separate public hearings
are held by both the Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees in relation
thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to
be heard. Notice of the purpose, time, and place of such hearing shall be given
by publication thereof in a paper of general circulation in the village, one
time at least ten days prior to such hearing (Neb. RS 19-904).
   (B)   In addition to the publication of the notice herein prescribed, a
notice, in sign form, of the hearing shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
or near the property on which such action is pending. The sign shall be placed
at least ten days prior to date of each hearing.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no special use permit shall be
granted by the Board of Trustees, without an affirmative vote of a majority of
all members of the Board of Trustees and unless the proposed use is found to:
      (1)   Be compatible with and similar to the use permitted in the
District;
      (2)   Not be a matter which should require re-zoning of the property;
      (3)   Not be detrimental to adjacent property;
      (4)   Not tend to depreciate the value of the surrounding structures or
property;
      (5)   Be compatible with the stated intended use of the District;
      (6)   Not change the character of the District; and
      (7)   Be in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (D)   In case of protest against such special use permit, signed by the
owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed
change, or of those immediately adjacent on the side and in the rear thereof
extending 100 feet, therefrom, and of those directly opposite thereto extending
100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such special use
permit shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of
all members of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.062 SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD.
   (A)   Salvage or junk yard operations and related facilities shall only be
allowed by special permit in the AGR and I Zoning Districts under the following
conditions:
      (1)   Located on a tract of land at least one-fourth mile from a
residential or agricultural farm residence;
      (2)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within a non-combustible
building or within an area completely surrounded on all sides by a visual
obscuring fence, wall, or hedge. The fence, wall, or hedge shall be of uniform
height (at least eight feet high) and uniform texture and color shall be so
maintained by the proprietor as to ensure maximum safety to the public and
preserve the general welfare of the neighborhood. The fence, wall, or hedge
shall be installed in such a manner as to retain all scrap, junk, or other
material within the yard and no scrap, junk, or other material shall protrude
above the fence;
      (3)   No junk shall be loaded, unloaded, or otherwise placed, either
temporarily or permanently, outside the enclosed building, hedge, fence or
wall, or within the public right-of-way; and
      (4)   Any other requirement deemed appropriate and necessary by the Board
of Trustees for the protection of the general health and welfare.
   (B)   In making any decision granting a special use permit, the Board of
Trustees shall impose such restrictions, terms, time limitations, landscaping,
improvement of off-street parking lots, and other appropriate safeguards as
required to protect adjoining property.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.063 LANDFILLS AND SANITARY LANDFILLS.
   (A)   Private landfill operations shall only be allowed by special permit in
the AGR Agriculture District upon prior approval of the State Department of
Health and Human Services System and with conformance to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Located on a tract of land at least 300 feet from a residential or
agricultural farm residence;
      (2)   The operation shall be conducted wholly within an area completely
surrounded on all sides by a fence, wall, or hedge. The fence, wall, or hedge
shall be of uniform height (at least eight feet high) and uniform texture and
color shall be so maintained by the proprietor as to insure maximum safety to
the public and preserve the general welfare of the neighborhood. The fence,
wall, or hedge shall be installed in such a manner as to retain all material
within the yard and no material shall protrude above the fence;
      (3)   No material shall be loaded, unloaded, or otherwise placed, either
temporarily or permanently, outside the enclosed building, hedge, fence, or
wall, or within the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Any other requirement deemed appropriate and necessary by the Board
of Trustees for the protection of the general health and welfare; and
      (5)   Special use permits granted under this section shall be subject to
annual review and renewal by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   In making any decision granting a special use permit, the Board of
Trustees shall impose such restrictions, terms, time limitations, landscaping,
improvement of off-street parking lots, and other appropriate safeguards as
required to protect adjoining property.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.064 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS TO SUPPLEMENT PUBLIC UTILITY
SERVICE.
   The following provisions are to be utilized in conjunction with Nebraska
State Statues, Laws 2009, LB 436, § 1, effective date August 30, 2009, commonly
known as net metering. Alternative energy sources are limited to methane, wind,
solar, biomass, hydropower resources, or geothermal. One or multiple
alternative energy sources may be used by a resident to supplement their
household’s reliance on the local or regional electricity provider.
   (A)   Application requirements for a alternative energy systems.
      (1)   A survey map at an appropriate scale identifying: site boundary;
adjacent public right-of-way; existing structures; proposed alternative energy
system and accessory structures; adjacent ownership and existing residences;
and any overhead utility lines.
      (2)   A report from a licensed engineer containing:
         (a)   Small wind energy system specifications including manufacturer
and model, rotor diameter, tower height, tower type (freestanding or guyed);
documentation to establish that the tower has sufficient structural integrity
for the proposed use at the proposed location; certification that the small
wind energy system complies with all applicable state construction and
electrical codes; and the National Electrical Code; and
         (b)   All components of any alternate energy system shall be located
within the lot setbacks and maximum height limits of the district in which the
property is located. If sufficient land area is available, the height of a
small wind energy system may exceed the maximum height limit of the district it
is located when the diameter of a circle equal to twice the height of the tower
fits within the width and length of a parcel, or multiple adjacent parcels
under same ownership.
   (B)   General site and design standards.
      (1)   Located on a legal lot(s) or parcel(s) of record in the village,
identifiable on the village plat map or within the one-half mile planning
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Setback from property lines, public rights-of-way, and access
easements shall be at least height of the tower of a small wind energy system.
All other alternative energy systems shall meet the height and setback
requirements of the zoning district in which there located.
      (3)   Turbines and towers shall be of tubular design and must be painted
or coated in a non-reflective white, grey, or other neutral color and shall not
used to display advertising.
      (4)   Small wind energy systems shall not be artificially lighted unless
such lighting is required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      (5)   All electrical wires associated with a alternative energy system
other than the wires necessary to connect the generator to the tower wiring,
the tower wiring to the disconnect junction box, and the grounding wires, shall
be located underground.
      (6)   The maximum distance between the ground and the tip of the rotor
blade of a small wind energy system, shall be 30 feet.
      (7)   All ground mounted electrical and control equipment must be labeled
and secured to prevent unauthorized access. A tower may not have step bolts or
a ladder within eight feet of the ground that is readily accessible to the
public.
      (8)   The owner of any alternative energy system shall minimize or
mitigate any interference with electromagnetic communications, such as radio,
telephone, or television signals caused by the energy system.
      (9)   Construction access must be re-graded and re-vegetated to minimize
environmental impacts.
      (10)   Alternative energy system applications must include an agreement
that addresses decommissioning and abandonment of the facility. The agreement
must at a minimum provide for reuse or dismantlement of the facility at the
owner’s expense.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 151.075 GENERALLY.
   In order to balance the need for clean, renewable energy resources with the
protection of the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the village,
the village finds this subchapter is necessary in order to ensure that all
commercial wind energy conversion systems (CWECS) are appropriately designed,
sited, and installed.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.076 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The applicant for a conditional use permit for construction of a CWECS shall
file an application with the Zoning Administrator. The application shall
include the name(s) of the project applicant(s), the name of the project owner
(s), and the legal description and address for the project. The application
shall also include the following documents:
   (A)   Survey map illustrating the following:
      (1)   Property lines, dimension, acreage, and contours with appropriate
intervals for site evaluation;
      (2)   Location and elevation of all components of the proposed CWECS;
      (3)   Location and dimensions of all existing structures and uses on
property within 300 feet of the system;
      (4)   Height of any structures over 35 feet within a 500 foot radius on-
site or off-site of the proposed CWECS;
      (5)   Location of any overhead utility lines on the property;
      (6)   Location of all known communications towers within two miles of the
proposed CWECS;
      (7)   Access roads; and
      (8)   Adjacent ownership, land uses, existing residences, schools,
churches, hospitals, public libraries, federal, state, county or local parks,
recognized historic or heritage sites, identified wildlife preserves, or
habitat areas to a distance of 2,640 feet (one-half mile).
   (B)   Applicant shall identify potential effects in terms of constraints or
benefits the wind energy facility may place on current or future use of the
land within the project site and the surrounding area. The extent of any
limitations due to public health and safety risks shall be specifically
addressed, and the effects on the following activities shall also be addressed:
      (1)   Existing or proposed tourist or recreation activities;
      (2)   Residential activities;
      (3)   Industrial activities;
      (4)   Agricultural activities; and
      (5)   Commercial activities.
   (C)   Soil erosion, sediment control, and storm water runoff plan shall
address what types of erosion control measures will be used during each phase
of the project. It shall identify plans for:
      (1)   Grading;
      (2)   Construction and drainage of access roads and turbine pads;
      (3)   Design features to control dust;
      (4)   Design features to maintain downstream water quality;
      (5)   Re-vegetation to ensure slope stability;
      (6)   Restoring the site after temporary project activities;
      (7)   Disposal or storage of excavated materials;
      (8)   Protecting exposed soil;
      (9)   Stabilizing restored material and removal of silt fences or
barriers when the area is stabilized; and
      (10)   Maintenance of erosion controls throughout the life of the
project.
   (D)   Applicant shall provide information regarding flora and fauna of the
proposed project area including:
      (1)   Officially listed threatened or endangered species;
      (2)   Critical habitat and habitat conditions; and
      (3)   An avian study based on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services Interim
Guidelines to Avoid and Minimize Wildlife Impacts from Wind Turbines.
   (E)   Standard drawings of the structural components of the CWECS, including
structures, tower, base, and footings; and
   (F)   Certification by a registered engineer that:
      (1)   There is a substantial need for the proposed use or CWECS, 100 kW
or greater;
      (2)   All applicable local, state, and federal building, structural, and
electrical codes have been followed;
      (3)   The site is feasible for a CWECS; the CWECS can be successfully
operated in the climate conditions found in the county;
      (4)   The rotor and over speed control have been designed for the
proposed use on the proposed site;
      (5)   The design and safety of the proposed tower to withstand winds of
90 mph; and
      (6)   If the wind turbine were to fall, no building or structure,
existing or potential, would be damaged.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.077 GENERAL SITE AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   CWECS shall be located on a parcel of at least ten acres in size.
   (B)   CWECS shall be designed and placed in such a manner as to minimize to
the greatest extent feasible, adverse visual and noise impacts on adjacent
areas. This shall include documentation of:
      (1)   Noise levels conforming to the International Electromechanical
Commission (IEC) Standard 61400-11 part 11; and
      (2)   Projections of the shadow flicker on any existing structures
located off the property on which the CWECS will be constructed and the extent
and duration of the shadow flicker on these existing structures.
   (C)   CWECS shall maintain a minimum setback distance from any property
lines of two times the combined height of the tower and blade.
   (D)   CWECS shall maintain a minimum setback distance from any public road
or highway of at least two times the combined height of the tower and blade.
   (E)   In no case shall a CWECS be located within any required setback or in
any front yard area.
   (F)   If an aggregated project, setbacks from multiple entities shall be one
and one-tenth times the height of the total system.
   (G)   Structures for wind turbines shall be self-supporting tubular towers
painted a neutral color such as white or pale gray. No lattice structure shall
be used. No logos or advertisements are allowed on these structures. Each
turbine shall be marked with a visible identification number located no higher
than 15 feet above ground level.
   (H)   Colors and surface treatment of the CWECS and supporting structures
shall, to the greatest extent possible, minimize disruption of the natural
characteristics of the site.
   (I)   Reasonable measures shall be taken to mitigate specific adverse visual
impacts such as reflections, shadow flicker, and blade glint affecting
residences within or immediately adjacent to the project area.
   (J)   Appropriate landscaping shall be provided to screen accessory
structures from roads and adjacent residences
   (K)   CWECS shall be equipped with air traffic warning lights or other
marking lights only if so required by the Federal Aviation Administration and
in which event, such light should be positioned or shielded to avoid visual
impact on neighboring properties, and shall be a white flashing light from
daylight till twilight and a steady red light night time.
   (L)   The applicant shall minimize or mitigate any interference with
electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, or television signals
caused by any wind energy facility.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.078 CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   All county roads to be used for the purpose of transporting CWECS,
substation parts, cement, or equipment for construction, operation, or
maintenance of the CWECS shall be identified and applicable weight and size
permits from the impacted road authority(ies) shall be obtained prior to
construction.
   (B)   The CWECS owner shall be responsible for immediate repair of damage to
public roads and drainage systems stemming from construction, operation, or
maintenance of the CWECS.
   (C)   Solid and hazardous wastes, including, but not limited to, crates,
packaging materials, damaged or worn parts, as well as used oils and lubricants
shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in accordance with all
applicable local, state, and federal regulations.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.079 SAFETY MEASURES.
   (A)   Each CWECS shall be equipped with both manual and automatic controls
to limit the rotational speed of the rotor blade so it does not exceed the
design limits of the rotor.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall determine the height, color, and type of
fencing for the CWECS installation. CWECS shall include no sign or advertising
of any kind except for one sign not to exceed two square feet posted at the
base of the tower, electrical equipment, and entrances. The sign shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   Warning high voltage;
      (2)   Manufacturer’s name;
      (3)   Operator’s name;
      (4)   Emergency phone number; and
      (5)   Emergency shutdown procedures.
   (C)   Each CWECS shall be properly grounded to safely sustain natural
lightning strikes in conformance with the National Electric Code.
   (D)   Any CWECS facility shall be equipped with anti-climbing devices. Tower
climbing apparatus shall not be located within 15 feet of the ground. Where the
tower is capable of being climbed, a locked, protective fence at least six feet
high shall enclose the tower.
   (E)   The minimum distance between the ground and any part of the rotor
blade system shall be 30 feet.
   (F)   The CWECS operator shall maintain a current insurance policy which
will cover installation, operation, and any possible damage or injury that
might result from the failure of a tower or towers or any other part or parts
of the generation and transmission facility. The amount of said policy shall be
established as a condition of approval. The CWECS shall be warranted against
any system failures reasonably expected in severe weather operation conditions
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.080 DISCONTINUATION AND DECOMMISSIONING.
   (A)   CWECS shall be considered a discontinued use after one year without
energy production, unless a plan is developed and submitted to the County
Zoning Administrator outlining the steps and schedule for returning the CWECS
to service. All CWECS and accessory facilities shall be removed four feet below
ground level within 90 days of the discontinuation of use.
   (B)   Each CWECS shall have a decommissioning plan outlining the anticipated
means and costs of removing CWECS at the end of the serviceable life or upon
becoming a discontinued use. The cost estimates shall be made by a competent
party, such as a profession engineer, a contractor capable of decommissioning,
or a person with suitable expertise or experience with decommissioning. The
plan shall include documentation showing financial capability to carry out the
decommissioning and restoration requirements. Applicant shall submit an escrow
account/surety bond/insurance policy in an amount approved by the Planning
Commission as reasonably necessary to restore the site to its pre-wind energy
facility topography and topsoil quality. The purpose of this account/bond/
policy is to assure removal of all improvements subject to the conditional use
permit.
   (C)   At the end of the wind energy facility’s useful life, the site shall
be restored in accordance with the requirements of this condition within 18
months.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGREGATED PROJECT. Those projects that are developed and operated in a
coordinated fashion, but which have multiple entities separately owning one or
more of the individual CWECS within a larger project. Associated infrastructure
such as power lines and transformers that service the facility may be owned by
a separate entity but are also included as part of the AGGREGATED PROJECT.
   COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (CWECS). A wind energy conversion
system under common or aggregated ownership or operating control that includes
substations, MET towers, cables/wires, and other building accessories, whose
main purpose is to supply electricity to off-site customers.
   FALL ZONE. The area, defined as the furthest distance from the tower base,
in which a tower will collapse in the event of a structural failure.
   FEEDER LINE. Any power line that carries electrical power from one or more
wind turbines or individual transformers associated with individual wind
turbines to the point of interconnection with the electric power grid, in the
case of interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems the point of
the interconnection shall be the substation serving the CWECS.
   HEIGHT; TOTAL SYSTEM. The height above grade of the system, including the
generating unit and the highest vertical extension of any blades or rotors.
   HEIGHT; TOWER. The height above grade of the fixed portion of the tower,
excluding the generation unit and attached blades and rotors.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. Those which are erected primarily to measure wind
speed and direction plus other data relevant to locating a CWECS.
METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS do not include towers and equipment used by airports, the
State Department of Transportation or other similar applications to monitor
weather conditions.
   SHADOW FLICKER. Strobe effect that occurs when sun is horizontal to rotor
blades, which causes repetitive intermittent shadows that can affect people on
near by properties.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (SWECS). A wind energy conversion system
which has a rated capacity of up to 100 kilowatts and which is incidental and
subordinate to another use on the same parcel. A system is considered a small
wind energy system only if it supplies electrical power for on site use, except
that when a parcel on which the system is installed also receives electrical
power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical power generated and not
presently needed for on site use may be sold back to the utility company. (LB
436 limits SWECS to 25 kilowatts or less scheduled to be reviewed next
session.)
   TOWER. The vertical component of a wind energy conversion system that
elevates the wind turbine generator and attached blades above the ground.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An aggregation of parts including the
base, tower, generator, rotor, blades, supports, and configuration as necessary
to convert the power of wind into mechanical or electrical energy, such as,
wind charger, windmill or wind turbine.
   WIND TURBINE GENERATOR. The component of a wind energy system that
transforms mechanical energy from the wind into electrical energy.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 151.095 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All buildings and structures erected and all uses of land in all
districts with the exception of the C-1 Commercial District, established after
the effective date of adopting this chapter shall provide accessory parking and
loading facilities as required under this section.
   (B)   All off-street parking spaces required by this chapter shall be
located on the same lots as the use it serves; provided that no parking space
can be reasonably provided on the same lot, such space shall be provided on any
off-street lot a substantial portion of which is within 500 feet of such use.
   (C)   Owners of two or more uses or parcels of land may agree to jointly
utilize the same parking spaces provided that satisfactory legal evidence is
presented in the form of deeds, leases, or contract documents to establish such
a joint area of use.
   (D)   All yard area including driveways, except the required front yard for
residential uses may be used for off-street parking. Garages and driveways may
be considered as off-street parking spaces. Each required off-street parking
space shall open directly upon an aisle or driveway which provides direct
access to a street or alley or shall itself be directly accessible to such
street or alley.
   (E)   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces in a given
area, the formula of 200 square feet per parking space shall be required.
Standing areas, aisles for maneuvering, and entrance and exit roadways shall
not be computed as parking space and shall be provided, when necessary, in
addition to required parking spaces in order to provide for appropriate access.
   (F)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or loading areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
interfere with such residential use.
   (G)   A plan, drawn to scale, indicating how the off-street parking and
loading requirements are to be met, shall accompany an application for a
building certificate. The plan shall show all elements necessary to indicate
that the requirements are being fulfilled.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.096 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time of construction or enlargement of more than 50% of an existing
structure or building or change in the use of land, off-street parking spaces
and loading areas shall be provided, constructed, and maintained for all uses
as follows:
Use Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Use                                     Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Apartments                               
   Efficiency and one-bedroom        1 per dwelling unit
   Two bedrooms                      1-1/2 per dwelling unit
   Three or more bedrooms            2 per dwelling unit
Bowling alley                           2 for each alley
Hospitals, nursing homes, rest homes,   1 for every 2-1/2 patient beds and 1
or similar uses                         for each staff and employee on the
                                        largest shift
Hotel and motel                         1 per rental unit plus 1 for every 4
                                        employees
Manufacturing, wholesale warehouse, and 1 for every 2 employees on the largest
similar uses                            working shift
Mobile trailer park                     2 per trailer unit
Places of public assembly such as
auditoriums, theaters, stadiums,        1 for every 4 seats
community halls, churches, and the like
Professional office establishments      1 per 500 square feet of floor area as
                                        determined by exterior wall dimensions
Residential                              
   Single-family, two-family dwelling2 per dwelling unit
Retail sales department stores,         1 per 200 square feet of floor area as
restaurants, taverns, grocery stores,   determined by exterior wall dimensions
and the like
 
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.097 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   At the time of construction, alteration, or enlargement of any structure or
building except residences and farms having an aggregate gross floor area of
500 square feet or more, off-street loading areas shall be provided and
maintained for all uses as follows:
 
Number Loading Area    Gross Floor Area
One    500 square feet For every 5,000 to 20,000 square feet
One    500 square feet For every 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof
 
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
ACCESSORY USES AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.110 ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   (A)   Buildings and structures may be erected and land may be used for
purposes which are clearly incidental to and customarily and commonly
associated with the main permitted use of the premises. Such accessory
buildings and uses shall be so constructed, maintained, and conducted as to not
produce noise, vibration, concussion, dust, dirt, fly ash, odor, noxious gases,
heat, or glare which is injurious, damaging, unhealthful, or disturbing to
adjacent property, or the users thereof, and shall be on the premises of the
main use.
   (B)   Any accessory building shall have a minimum side yard setback of five
feet on interior lots and 15 on corner lots; provided it is located between the
rear property line and the rear building line of the principle building. No
accessory building shall be located between the front building line of the
principle building and the front property line. No accessory building shall be
located closer than five feet from the rear property line or within ten feet of
any other building on adjacent properties, and no accessory building shall be
located within any easement or right-of-way along the rear property line. All
garage entrances must have a minimum 15 feet long drive when garage opening is
perpendicular to the access alley or 20 feet perpendicular to the access
street. Attached garages are considered part of principal building.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.111 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   An occupation or activity carried on within the dwelling or accessory
building by a member of the family residing on the premises, which occupation
or activity is incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy and does
not change the residential character nor infringe upon the right of neighboring
residents to enjoy a peaceful occupancy of their homes.
   (B)   The following conditions and restrictions shall apply to such
customary home occupations:
      (1)   The primary use of the building or structure in which the
occupation is situated shall clearly be the dwelling used by the person as his
or her private residence;
      (2)   Signs and displays shall be limited to one non-illuminated sign not
exceeding six square feet in area; and
      (3)   No equipment or machinery shall be used in such activities that
create excessive noise, smoke, odor, dust, radiation, electrical interference,
or vibration. Parking shall be handled in such a manner as to not impede or
hinder traffic on any public right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.112 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All manufactured homes located outside mobile home parks shall meet the
following standards:.
   (A)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
   (B)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
   (C)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and one-
half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
   (D)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
   (E)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock;
   (F)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and removable
towing apparatus removed;
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record; and
   (H)   The home must meet building code requirements adopted by the village.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.113 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yards. The front yards heretofore established shall be adjusted
in the following cases:
      (1)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed and the buildings on this side of a block
have observed a front yard greater in depth than herein required, new buildings
shall not be erected closer to the street than the average front yard so
established by the existing buildings; provided that no building shall be
required to have a front yard setback of more than 50 feet; and
      (2)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have a front yard
less than the required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street
than the nearest building on the block.
   (B)   Structural projections. The ordinary projections of chimneys and
flues, buttresses, eaves, overhangs, open-unenclosed steps, or stoops up to
five feet in height may extend into required yards for a distance of not more
than two feet in the required side yard and not more than five feet in the
required front yard.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.114 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height limitations contained in the schedule of district regulations do
not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy and agricultural structures.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.115 EXCEPTION TO LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   If, at the time of passage of this subchapter, a lot or the aggregate of
contiguous lots or land parcels held in a single ownership, has an area or
dimension which does not meet the lot size requirements of the district in
which the property is located, the lot or aggregate holdings may be occupied by
any use permitted outright in the district subject to the other requirements of
the district.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.116 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Generally. Mobile home parks shall only be allowed in the R-3 Zoning
District under the following conditions.
      (1)   Individual mobile home lots shall have an area of not less than
4,000 square feet per single wide mobile home and 6,000 square feet for double
wide mobile homes, and the total number of lots per gross acre shall not exceed
six.
      (2)   Mobile homes shall be situated on individual lots so there will be
a minimum of 15 feet between mobile homes and that each mobile home will be set
back at least 15 feet from the nearest service road. Mobile homes parked end-
to-end shall have an end-to-end clearance of not less than ten feet. Enclosed
additions shall be considered a part of the mobile home in measuring required
yard distance. The required area for each mobile home space shall not include
area required for access or service roads, service buildings, recreation areas,
office, and other similar mobile home park needs.
      (3)   The mobile home park shall have direct access to a public street or
highway by a right-of-way at least 50 feet in width and a minimum length of 100
feet to permit the easy entrance and exit from the mobile home park. Service
roads shall be provided to each mobile home space. Each service road shall
provide for continuous forward movement, shall connect with a street or
highway, and shall a minimum clear width of 20 feet paved with a suitable
dustless material.
      (4)   Walkways not less than four feet wide shall be provided from mobile
home spaces to the service buildings. All walkways within the park shall be
hard surfaced and lighted at night with a minimum illumination of 25 watt lamps
spaced at intervals of not more than 100 feet.
      (5)   Two off-street parking spaces for each mobile home space shall be
provided at each mobile home space or in group parking. Each off-street parking
space shall be at least 300 square feet.
      (6)   (a)   The area of the mobile home stand shall be improved to
provide an adequate and approved foundation for the placement and tie-down of
the mobile home, thereby securing the super-structure against uplift, sliding,
rotation, or overturning.
         (b)   The mobile home or trailer stand shall be on incombustible
materials and shall not shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile
home or trailer due to frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration, or other
forces acting upon the super-structure. The mobile home or trailer stand may be
provided by means of a solid concrete footer block (16" x 16" x 4" minimum)
placed on solid uniform soil with at least two standard concrete blocks with
cells placed vertically beside each other on the footer block. A solid four
inches concrete cap covering the two concrete blocks shall be provided as the
bearing area to be positioned directly beneath the steel frame of the mobile
home or trailer. Such clocking shall be provided along the full length of the
mobile home or trailer unit, spaced not more than ten feet apart, and not more
than five feet from the ends of the unit.
      (7)   The mobile home or trailer stand shall be provided with anchors and
the tie downs such as cast-in-lace concrete “dead men,” eyelets imbedded in
concrete foundations or runways, screw augers, arrowhead anchors, or other
devices securing the stability of the mobile home or trailer. The tie-down
devices shall be compatible with the foundation system provided for the mobile
home or trailer such that the tie-downs are designated to resist the action of
frost in the same manner as the foundation system.
      (8)   The skirting of all mobile homes and trailers is required. Such
skirting shall not attach a mobile home or trailer permanently to the ground,
but shall be sufficient to withstand wind load requirements and shall not
provide a harborage for junk or rodents, nor create a fire hazard. Such
skirting shall be provided with removable access panels sufficient to provide
easy access to all utility connection points of the mobile home or trailer and
its subsequent connection to the utility raisers if they are located within the
skirted area.
   (B)   Permit the creation of mobile home parks in which the individual
mobile home lots are available for sale. Wherever a mobile home park is
permitted by this chapter to be created through the granting of conditional
uses, or otherwise, said mobile home park may be designed to permit the sale of
the individual mobile home lots within said park. A proposed mobile home park
in which the individual mobile home lots will be offered for sale must meet all
of the following requirements.
      (1)   The individual mobile home lots shall, for the district within
which such mobile home park is located, meet the minimum lot requirements,
minimum yard requirements, maximum lot coverage, and maximum height
requirements of such districts.
      (2)   Each such mobile home lot shall be individually serviced with all
utilities and shall be individually metered for all utilities and treated in
all respects by the village as a separate user of utilities.
      (3)   The developer of such mobile home park shall be required to secure
a preliminary and final plat as per the subdivision process outlined in Chapter
152.
      (4)   At the time of an application for a special use permit, or at the
time of the application for subdivision in a mobile home park where the lots
are to be offered for sale, the developer shall submit all legal documents
necessary for the creation of an association having the purpose of maintaining,
controlling, and covering all expenses, taxes, and costs incurred on common
areas within the mobile home park. Such association shall require that all
property owners within the mobile home park be members thereof and pledge the
lots owned within the mobile home park as security for the association
performing such obligations. Covenants shall be placed on the property by the
developer and owners thereof so as to ensure this obligation. These documents
shall be submitted by the proper officials to the Board of Trustees for its
approval and no subdivision permit or special use permit may be issued without
the approval of these documents by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.117 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls, and hedges
may be permitted in any required yard; provided that no fence, wall, or hedge
along the sides or front edge of any front yard shall be over three and one-
half feet in height. Additionally, on a corner lot in a residential district, a
sight triangle shall be provided such that nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision
between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the centerline
grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of
such corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines 50 feet from
the point of their intersection. The following regulations shall apply to the
construction of fences.
   (A)   No solid fence shall be constructed closer to the street than the
property line. No fence shall be closer than two feet to the sidewalk.
   (B)   No fence erected in a required front yard shall materially obstruct
public view. Permitted types of fences shall include split rail, chain link, or
other similar material. No component of a front yard fence shall exceed three
and one-half feet in height, nor shall any structural member exceed 36 inches
in cross-sectional area.
   (C)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic hazard
as identified in the site triangle of a corner lot.
   (D)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner or be of such design as
to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals by intent of its
construction or by inadequate maintenance.
   (E)   No fence within residential districts, except fences erected upon
public or parochial school grounds or in public parks and in public
playgrounds, shall be constructed of a height greater than six feet, except for
the provisions of division (J) below.
   (F)   All fences shall conform to the construction standards of the Building
Code and other applicable ordinances and resolutions.
   (G)   In commercial and industrial districts, maximum height offences shall
be eight feet. When industry standards for certain types of businesses require
fences of greater heights, the Zoning Administrator at his or her direction,
may allow greater heights.
   (H)   All fences constructed in the village shall comply with the provision
of this section and obtain a building permit.
   (I)   Good side of fence shall face to the outside of the property.
   (J)   (1)   All outdoor swimming pools shall be enclosed by a fence or wall
at least six feet, but not more than eight feet in height with a gate or gates
which can be securely locked.
      (2)   SWIMMING POOL shall be defined as any permanent depression in the
ground or any permanent above or below ground container in which water more
than 18 inches deep is contained and which is used primarily for the purpose of
bathing or swimming. For purposes of this section, PERMANENT shall mean a
device which remains in place Memorial Day through Halloween and is not
dismantled, stored, moved, or removed on a seasonal basis. This definition does
not include hot tubs nor does it include such temporary devices as children’s
wading pools, inflatable pools, or similar devices, regardless of water depth.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010; Ord. 635, passed 9-18-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.118 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the location, area, and type of signs
permitted within the village.
   (A)   Intent and applicability. The following regulations shall govern the
locations, areas heights, and types of signs permitted within the zoning
jurisdiction of this chapter.
      (1)   All signs hereafter constructed, erected, printed, or otherwise
established, moved, altered, or changed shall comply with this chapter.
      (2)   After the effective date of this chapter, no sign shall be erected,
enlarged, constructed, or otherwise installed without first obtaining a sign
permit. A sign permit shall be legally issued only when in compliance with this
section.
      (3)   No accessory sign, advertising display or structure, poster, or
device shall be erected, moved, enlarged, maintained, or reconstructed except
as expressly permitted by this subchapter; provided, however, that such state,
county, and municipal signs and traffic signs as are installed for public
purposes are exempt from these requirements.
      (4)   Non-conforming signs existing at the time of enactment of this
chapter may be repaired or maintained, but may not be otherwise established,
moved, altered, or changed except in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   Temporary signs or banners on or over public property may be
authorized by the Board of Trustees for a period not to exceed ten days.
      (6)   Signs attached to a building and projecting over a street, alley,
or other public space shall project no more than ten feet and be no closer than
two feet to a plumb line from curb line; clearance below such signs shall be a
minimum of nine feet.
      (7)   No sign except for those of incidental sales of a non-commercial
basis shall be constructed, erected, remodeled, relocated, or expanded, until a
sign permit for such sign has been obtained authorized and signed by the Zoning
Administrator excluding general maintenance. Such requirement shall pertain to
both permanent and temporary signs. A fee for application for a sign permit for
signs shall be paid to the village to handle processing costs. In addition,
information pertinent to the sign characteristics and dimensions must be
presented to the Zoning Administrator sufficient to determine compliance with
the ordinance.
   (B)   On- and off-site signs on interstate or federal aid primary highways.
The erection or maintenance of any advertising sign, display, or device which
is visible to the traveled way of the National System of Interstate and Defense
Highways, and the system of federal-aid primary roads of the state as defined
by the State Department of Roads, is hereby prohibited unless in compliance
with the regulations set forth in rules and regulation relating to the control
of advertising in areas adjacent to the interstate and federal aid primary
highways, as amended, adopted, and published by the State Department of Roads.
As of July, 1976, primary highways within the village’s zoning jurisdiction are
Highways 1 and 50.
   (C)   Prohibited signs. Signs shall not be erected or maintained in such a
manner as to obscure, or otherwise physically interfere with an official
traffic sign, signal, or device, or in such a manner as to obstruct or
interfere with a driver’s view of approaching, merging, or intersecting
traffic. This shall also mean pedestrian traffic on sidewalks. All road signs
shall be maintained in a neat and presentable condition.
   (D)   District regulations.
      (1)   Agriculture Residential District (AGR). No regulations apply other
than those outlined herein.
      (2)   Residential Districts (R-1, R-2, and R-3).
         (a)   Signs permitted in the residential districts shall be erected
and maintained at least 15 feet from the street or road line.
         (b)   One sign not illuminated, less than six square feet in area for
each dwelling. A maximum of two signs are permissible for multi-family
apartment buildings, whether attached to the apartment building or mounted on
the ground, at a maximum size of 12 square feet for each sign.
         (c)   Any temporary sign, not illuminated, less than six square feet
in area, advertising the sale, lease, or rental of the property.
      (3)   General Commercial District (C-1). Illuminated or non-illuminated
signs identifying the character or the establishment. No one sign shall exceed
50 square feet in area.
      (4)   Highway Commercial District (C-2). Illuminated or non-illuminated
signs identifying the character of the establishment. No one sign shall exceed
100 square feet in area.
      (5)   Industrial District (I). In an I District, identification and
advertising signs accessory to the allowed use are permitted except that each
sign shall be limited to 100 square feet in area.
   (E)   Political signs.
      (1)   Political signs are not authorized in any zoning district except
for a period of 30 days before a national, state, village, or local
governmental subdivision election to which they apply, and such signs must be
removed within a period of five days after such election.
      (2)   No political signs shall be permitted on the public streets, parks,
alleys, or other public areas.
   (F)   Discontinuation of use. In the event the use or need of a sign shall
cease, the sign shall be removed promptly and the area restored to a condition
free from refuse and rubbish. After 30 days’ notice and failure to do so, the
village shall remove the sign and assess the charges to the owner.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f4b2578eb901cf060e298ada97463b7ab036c15d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1305.png]
 
(Ord. passed 8- -2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUS TMENT
§ 151.130 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby created and shall be known as the
Board of Zoning Adjustment. The Board of Trustees shall constitute the Board of
Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010; Ord. 587, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 151.131 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Mayor and at such times as the Board may determine. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be a public
record.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.132 INTERPRETATIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to appropriate conditions and
safeguards as specified in these regulations, have the following powers (Neb.
RS 19910):
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or Planning Commission based on or made in the enforcement of any
zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
regulation, requests for interpretation of any maps, or for decisions upon
other special questions upon which the Board is authorized by any such
regulation to pass; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of adoption of this chapter, or by
reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property, the strict
application of any enacted regulation under this section and Neb. RS 19-901,
19-903 to 19-904.01, 19-908, and 19-910, would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon appeal relating to the property,
a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such difficulties or
hardships, if such relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the
public good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this
chapter, but no such variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the regulation would produce undue
hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reasons of
demonstrable and exceptional .hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
   (B)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonable and
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to this chapter.
   (C)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, such Board may, in
conformity with the provisions of said sections, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as shall be proper, and to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.133 PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING A VARIANCE.
   The procedures to be followed by the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, or governmental agency affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be made within ten days from the date
of decision by any official or department. The appeal filed in writing shall
define the appeal being requested and the grounds therefore. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Zoning
Adjustment all the paper constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board shall set a hearing within 30 days of
receipt of the appeal. The time, date, place of the hearing, and description of
the request shall be published in a local newspaper of general circulation ten
days prior to the actual hearing. The Board shall also notify the interested
parties in the case of the hearing date, time, and place.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.134 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person or persons, jointly or separately, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment, or any officer, departments, board, or bureau
of the village, may seek review of such decision by the District Court for the
village in the manner provided by the laws of the state and particularly by
Neb. RS 19-912.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND FEES
§ 151.145 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   This chapter shall be enforced and administered by a zoning administrator
who shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees and who may be provided with
the assistance of such other persons as the Board of Trustees may direct in
order to carry out the following duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   Approve and issue all building permits and occupancy certificates when
compliance is made with this chapter;
   (B)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and uses of land to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   Receive, file, and forward to the Board of Zoning Adjustment the
records in all appeals for variances;
   (D)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, all zoning maps, amendments, special use permits, variances,
appeals, and applications thereof and records of hearings thereon;
   (E)   Prepare and have available in book, pamphlet, or map for each year.
      (1)   The compiled text of this chapter and amendments thereto, including
all amendments adopted through the preceding December 31; and
      (2)   A zoning map or maps, showing the zoning districts, divisions, and
classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
   (F)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the
provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated, he or she shall
notify in writing the person responsible for such violation, indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or
she may order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures;
removal of illegal buildings, structures, or additions or alterations thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or take any other appropriate
action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with, or to prevent
violation of, its provisions.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.146 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added
to, or structurally altered without a building permit first having been issued
by the Zoning Administrator. No building permit shall be issued unless the
proposed construction or use is in conformance with all of the provisions of
this chapter and with all other applicable codes, regulations, and laws of the
village and with all orders, and variances lawfully issued by the Board of
Adjustment. A building permit shall not be required for agricultural (non-
residential) buildings or structures in the AGR Agricultural Districts or for
improvements which have a value of $1,000 or less. If the work for which a
permit has been issued shall not have begun within six months of the date
thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued for a period of six
months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a new permit
shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
   (B)   Application for building permit. All applications for a building
permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing the location, ground area,
height, and bulk of all present and proposed structures, additions, parking
areas, and site improvements; the actual dimensions and shape of the lot lines;
the uses to be built upon; the building lines in proposed structures or
additions; and any other reasonable and pertinent information as may be
required by the Zoning Administrator or the proper enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Approval or disapproval of permit. The Zoning Administrator shall
examine all applications for building permits, including plans, specifications,
and documents filed therewith and shall either approve or disapprove such
application within 30 days of receipt of same. Upon approval and receipt of
required fees, the Zoning Administrator shall promptly issue the building
permit and shall affix his or her signature to the permit and the plans and
mark the plans “Approved.” Upon disapproval of the application, the Zoning
Administrator shall refuse to issue the permit and shall state in writing on
the plans the reasons for disapproval, affix his or her signature, and mark the
plans “Disapproved.”
   (D)   Appeal from approval or disapproval. An appeal from approval or
disapproval of any application shall be made to the Board of Zoning Adjustment
in writing within ten days after the determination of the Zoning Administrator
has been filed.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.147 CERTIFICATION OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. No building, structure, or land shall be used or occupied, in
whole or in part, nor shall any change made in the use or type of occupancy of
an existing building or structure requiring a building permit, nor shall any
change be made in the use of land, except to any use which is primarily
agricultural, unless a certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary certificate. Upon request, the Zoning Administrator may
issue a partial certificate of occupancy for a period not to exceed 90 days,
for a building or structure or part thereof, before the entire work covered by
the building permit shall have been completed; provided such portion or
portions as have been completed may be occupied safely without endangering life
or the public welfare.
   (C)   Application for certificate of occupancy. All applications for
certificate of occupancy shall be made by the owner or his or her agent and
shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the owner, registered architect,
licensed professional engineer, or superintendent of construction who shall
state that he or she has examined the approved plans of the structure, that
said structure has been erected in accordance with the approved plans, and that
it complies with this chapter and all local code and resolutions/ordinances
governing building construction. The application and affidavit shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. Before issuing a certificate of
occupancy, the Zoning Administrator shall examine all buildings, structures, or
sites for which an application has been filed for a building permit to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, demolish, or change the use or
occupancy. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all examinations
and inspections, together with a record of findings of violations of the law.
   (E)   A certificate of occupancy shall be deemed to authorize, and is
required for, both initial and continued occupancy and use of the building or
land to which it applies, and shall continue in effect so long as such building
or land is used as authorized in the certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.148 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees shall be established for this chapter by the Board of
Trustees. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Zoning
Administrator and may be altered or amended only by the Board of Trustees.
Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no
action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.149 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General. The Board of Trustees may from time to time supplement,
change, or generally revise the boundaries or regulations contained in this
chapter. A proposal for such amendment may be initiated by the Board of
Trustees, Planning Commission, or upon application of the owner of the property
affected. A filing fee established by the Board of Trustees is required for
each application to be considered by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Submission to Planning Commission.
      (1)   All such proposed amendments shall first be submitted to the
Planning Commission for recommendation and report. Upon the development of
tentative recommendations, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
thereon and shall cause an accurate written summary to be made of proceedings,
and shall give notice in like manner as that required for the original zoning
recommendations. Such notice shall fix the time and place for such hearing and
contain a statement regarding the proposed changes in regulations or
restrictions or in the boundary of any district.
      (2)   If such proposed amendment is not a general revision of an existing
provision of this chapter, and will affect specific property, it shall be
designated by legal description and general street location and in addition to
such publication notice, written notice of such proposed amendment shall be
mailed to all owners of lands located within 300 feet of the area proposed to
be altered and an opportunity granted to interested parties to be heard.
   (C)   Amendment consideration and adoption.
      (1)   The procedure for the consideration and adoption of any such
proposed amendments, to this chapter, shall be in like manner as that required
for the consideration and adoption of the ordinance except herein before or
herein after modified. For action on zoning amendments, a quorum of the
Planning Commission is more than one-half of all the members. A vote either for
or against an amendment by a majority of all the Planning Commission members
present constitutes a recommendation of the Commission; whereas a vote either
for or against an amendment by less than a majority of the Planning Commission
present constitutes a failure to recommend.
      (2)   When the Planning Commission submits a recommendation of approval
or disapproval of such amendment, the Board of Trustees, if it approves such
recommendation, may either adopt such recommendation by ordinance or take no
further action thereof as appropriate. In the event the Planning Commission
submits a failure to recommend, the Board of Trustees may take such action as
it deems appropriate. Upon receipt of a recommendation of the Planning
Commission which the Board of Trustees disapproves, the said governing body
shall return such recommendation to the Planning Commission with a statement
specifying the basis for disapproval, and such recommendation shall be
considered in like manner as that required for the original recommendation
returned to the Planning Commission. If such amendment shall affect the
boundaries of any district, the ordinance shall define the change or the
boundary as amended, shall order the official zoning map(s) to be changed to
reflect such amendment, and shall amend the section of the ordinance
incorporating the same and reincorporate such map as amended.
   (D)   Protest. Regardless of whether or not the Board of Trustees approves
or disapproves a proposed zoning amendment or fails to recommend, if a protest
against such amendment be filed in the office of the Village Clerk within 14
days after the date of the conclusion of the public hearing pursuant to said
publication notice, duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more
either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of those
immediately adjacent in the rear thereof extending 100 feet there from, or of
those directly opposite thereto extending 100 feet from the street frontage of
such opposite lots, such amendments shall not become effective except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds majority of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.150 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the
causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. He or
she shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take
action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.151 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of these regulations the appropriate authorities of
the village may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use; to restrain, correct or abate such violation;
to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or land; or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
 
   (A)   The owner or agent of a building or premises in or upon which a
violation of any provisions of this chapter has been committed or shall exist
or lessee or tenant of the entire building or entire premises in or upon which
such violation shall exist, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every
day that such violation continues after notification shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
APPENDIX A: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OF CORPORATE LIMITS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f4b2578eb901cf060e298ada97463b7ab036c15d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1301.jpg]
 
 
Legend:
R-1    Single-Family Residential
R-2    Single- and Multi- Family Residential
R-3    Mobile Home Park
C-1    General Commercial
C-2    Highway Commercial
I    Industrial
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
APPENDIX B: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP OF PLANNING JURISDICTION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f4b2578eb901cf060e298ada97463b7ab036c15d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1303.jpg]
 
Legend:
AGR    Agricultural Residential
R-1   Single-Family Residential
R-2   Single- and Multi-Family Residential
R-3   Mobile Home Park
C-1   General Commercial
C-2   Highway Commercial
I      Industrial
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Authority
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Jurisdiction
   
152.04   Applicability
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Procedures
   
152.07   Streets, alleys, sidewalks and driveways
   
152.08   Utility and drainage facilities
   
152.09   Shared improvement costs
   
152.10   Subdivision improvement procedure
   
152.11   Dedication of public land
   
152.12   Annexation and recording of plat
   
152.13   Variances
   
152.14   Waiver for small subdivisions
   
152.15   Public sites and open spaces
   
152.16   Amendments
§ 152.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is hereby adopted and enacted under authority of Neb. RS 19-916
through 19-922 and 17-1001 through 17-1003, and amendments thereto, and
comprise requirements, standards, and specifications with respect to provisions
for the proper location and width of streets, building lines, open spaces,
safety, recreation; and, for the manner in which streets will be graded and
improved; and, the extent to which water, sewer, and other utility services
shall be provided; and, to provide for the approval of preliminary plats and
final plats and endorsement thereof by the Planning Commission and by the Board
of Trustees. No final plat of a subdivision shall be approved and accepted by
the Board of Trustees unless it conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly development of the
village and its environs; to proscribe standards for the laying out of
subdivisions in harmony with the Comprehensive Plan; for the coordination of
streets and utilities within subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets and utilities; for coordination of subdivisions with other features of
the Comprehensive Plan to provide for adequate open space for traffic,
recreation, light, and air; and for the distribution of population and traffic
in such a manner so as to create conditions favorable to health, safety,
convenience, or prosperity, all in accordance with applicable state statutes.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the area of planning and
zoning jurisdiction as defined on the official zoning maps of the village, as
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.04 APPLICABILITY.
   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or part thereof lying within
the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared for approval and recorded
as herein prescribed. This chapter shall apply to the subdivision of a lot,
tract, parcel of land into two or more lots, tracts, or other division of land
for the purpose of sale or development, whether immediate or future, including
the re-subdivision or replatting of land or lots, except that the division of
land when the smallest parcel created is more than ten acres in area shall be
exempt from this chapter. Further, this chapter shall be minimum regulations
which shall apply uniformly throughout the jurisdiction of this chapter except
as hereafter provided.
   (A)   Each separate principal use/building within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be situated on a separate and single subdivided lot of record
unless otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance of the village.
   (B)   No subdivision of land shall be permitted within the planning
jurisdiction of the village unless a plat is approved in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Further, no lot in a subdivision may be sold,
transferred, or negotiated to sell, no permit to erect, alter, or repair any
building upon land in a subdivision may be issued, and no building may be
erected in a subdivision unless a final plat has been approved by the Board of
Trustees and recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   To a subdivision of land whereby the smallest parcel created or
remaining is more than ten acres;
      (2)   The subdivision of burial lots in cemeteries; or
      (3)   A change in the boundary between adjoining lands which does not
create an additional lot or does not result in a non-conformity of an existing
lot.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A tract or parcel of land bounded by public streets or lands,
streams, railroads, unplatted lands, or a combination thereof.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel or nearly parallel, to either the street line
or the lot line not abutting the street and at a specified distance from the
street or lot line which marks the minimum distance from either line that a
building may be erected. In the case of a cul-de-sac, the BUILDING LINE shall
be measured around the curvature of the street line.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person or persons designated by the governing body to
administer this chapter, whether such person or persons by entitled Building
Official, Building Inspector, Administrative Official, or Zoning Administrator.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. The undivided land in a subdivision which may be jointly
owned by all property owners of the subdivision, for the benefit of the owners
of the individual building sites of said development.
   COMMON SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewage system in public ownership which
provides for the collection and treatment of domestic effluent in a central
sewage treatment plant which meets the minimum requirements of the State
Department of Environmental Quality for primary and secondary sewage treatment
and which does not include individual septic tanks or portable sewage treatment
facilities.
   COMMON WATER SYSTEM. A water system which provides for the supply, storage,
and distribution of potable water on an uninterrupted basis which is in public
ownership.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long range development plan adopted by the Board of
Trustees.
   COVENANT. Written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels water under a bridge, street, or
driveway.
   EASEMENT. A grant by property owner to the public, a corporation, or persons
of the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose.
   ENGINEER. One, licensed by the state, designated by the Board of Trustees to
act for the village.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property abutting on one side of a street
measured along the dividing line between the property and the street.
   GREEN AREA. See COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   IMPROVEMENT. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutter, sidewalks, water
lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and drainage
facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related matters normally
associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces, and parking required by this chapter and fronting
upon a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage on one
street only.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot fronting on more than one
street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A tract of land described as an integral portion of a
subdivision plat which is properly recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
   MONUMENTS. Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definitely
all lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary
line corners, and points of change in street alignment.
   OUT LOT. Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is developed and which is to be excluded from the development of
the subdivision.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress.
   PEDESTRIAN WAYS. A tract of land dedicated to public use, which cuts across
a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjoining streets and properties.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Special development of certain tracts of land, planned
and designed as a unit for one or more land uses under rules and procedures
contained in this chapter.
   PLANNING AREA. The statutory zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed planning body designated by the Board of
Trustees.
   PLAT. Map, drawing, or chart upon which the developer’s plan of subdivision
(preliminary) is presented to the Board of Trustees for approval and, after
such approval, to the appropriate County Clerk for recording.
   PLOT. A parcel of ground.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk, or other ways in which the general
public or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether
improved or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features
such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts, and bridges.
   SETBACK LINE. A line, as shown on a record plat or otherwise established by
the Board of Trustees, beyond which no part of a main exterior wall of a
building or structure may project.
   SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot
which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare including avenues, which affords
principle means of access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owners, developers, or agents of persons or corporations
affecting subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, building development, or, if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes
resubdivision, and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the
process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered in the state to practice surveying.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET, or ROAD. The full width between property lines
bounding every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used
for vehicular traffic and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-way, other than a street, which
provides only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides for through traffic
movement between and around streets with direct access to abutting property,
subject to necessary control of entrances, exits, and curbs use.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which provides for traffic movement
between arterials and local streets, with direct access to abutting property.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A street which provides direct access to abutting
land and local traffic movement, whether in business, industrial, or
residential land.
      (7)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
“frontage street” or “service road”).
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the village, in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   WALKWAY. See SIDEWALK.
   ZONE or DISTRICT. A section of the zoning area for which uniform regulations
governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of the use of buildings,
land, and open spaces about buildings, are established.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.06 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Plat submission requirements. The subdivider shall submit to the
Village Clerk 11 copies of the preliminary plat and supplemental material
specified, with written application for conditional approval, at least ten days
prior to the regular meeting of the Planning Commission at which the request
will be heard.
   (B)   Fees. Fees are set by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Scale and preliminary plat contents. Preliminary plats shall be a
scale of one inch to 100 feet, or 1" = 200' if 75% of the lots are one acre or
larger, and shall be prepared with the following information:
      (1)   Name, location, acreage, owner, and designer of subdivision with
legal description as shown by land records;
      (2)   Present zoning;
      (3)   Date, north point, and graphic scale;
      (4)   Location of property lines, roads, existing utilities with size of
lines, and other underground installations and easement;
      (5)   Names of adjoining properties or subdivisions;
      (6)   Proposed utility system, including water, sewer, and paving;
      (7)   Dimensions, lot lines, except that in industrial type subdivisions,
lot lines may be excluded;
      (8)   Location of proposed drainage;
      (9)   Contours at five feet intervals at 1" = 200' scale;
      (10)   Proposed improvements and grading concepts;
      (11)   Location of existing buildings; and
      (12)   Proposed easements, dedications, and reservations of land
required.
   (D)   Notification of improvement schedule. Subdivider shall indicate by a
letter when improvements as required will be provided; any proposed restrictive
covenants for the land involved shall accompany the letter.
   (E)   Notification of County Planning Commission. The village shall notify
the County Planning Commission of any proposed subdivision plat and provide the
Commission with all available materials on the proposed plat, when such
proposed plat lies partially or totally within the extraterritorial subdivision
jurisdiction being exercised by that municipality in such county. The
Commission shall be given four weeks to officially comment on the
appropriateness of the design and improvements proposed in the plat. The review
period shall run concurrently with subdivision review activities of the village
after the Commission receives all available material for a proposed subdivision
plat.
   (F)   Notification of school board. At least ten days prior to the Planning
Commission meeting at which the preliminary plat is to be considered for
approval, the Planning Commission shall submit a copy of the proposal to the
school board of each school district which the proposed development affects,
and shall notify the school board of the meeting date. Copies of the plat may
be submitted to any other agency which may be affected.
   (G)   Approval or rejection. After review of the preliminary plat and
negotiations with the subdivider, the Planning Commission shall reject or
conditionally approve the preliminary plat, within 30 days after the official
meeting at which the plat was considered.
   (H)   Recording of action. The action of the Planning Commission shall be
noted on three copies of the preliminary plat, referenced and attached to any
conditions determined. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, one copy
relayed to the Board of Trustees, and one copy retained by the Planning
Commission.
   (I)   Approval is conditional. Approval of a preliminary plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat; it shall be deemed an expression of
approval or conditional approval of the submitted plat, as a guide for the
preparation of the final plat, which will be subject to further consideration
by the Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees. Any conditional approval
of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year unless an
extension is granted by the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Installation of improvements for final plat approval. Following
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall:
      (1)   Agree to install the required improvements;
      (2)   Sign an agreement, which shall be entered into only at the option
of the village, thereby guaranteeing the installation of improvements; or
      (3)   Furnish a bond or enter into an escrow or security agreement
approved by the Village Attorney in an amount sufficient to guarantee the
installation of the required improvements.
   (K)   Final plat submission requirements. Final plats, showing entire
concept, shall be submitted to the Village Clerk within one year of approval of
the preliminary plat, unless an extension is granted by the Planning
Commission. The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved
and to the requirements of all applicable ordinances and state statutes; and,
if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of this chapter.
   (L)   Scale and final plat contents. One original and two Mylar copies of
the final plat and other exhibits required for approval shall be submitted. The
final plat shall be drawn in ink on Mylar and shall be at a scale of one-inch
to 100 feet or larger. The final plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Date, title, name, and location of subdivision;
      (2)   Streets and street names, lots, setback lines, lot numbers, and the
like, except that in industrial type subdivision lot designation may be
excluded;
      (3)   Graphic scale and north arrow;
      (4)   Monuments (ferrous) one-inch diameter, maximum, 30 inches length
minimum;
      (5)   Dimensions, angles and bearings, and complete legal description of
the property;
      (6)   Sufficient survey data to reproduce any line on the ground;
      (7)   Names of adjoining subdivisions;
      (8)   Location and dimensions of any easements;
      (9)   Purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved, and the transfer
of ownership of the same;
      (10)   Certification by surveyor as to accuracy of survey and plat;
      (11)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding title
or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted;
      (12)   Certification recording the approval by the Planning Commission;
and
      (13)   Certification recording the approval by the Board of Trustees and
the acceptance of any dedications.
   (M)   Supplementary data required. The final plat shall be accompanied by
construction plans of all required public improvements, approved by an
engineer.
   (N)   Professional assistance. The Board of Trustees or the Planning
Commission may request such professional assistance as it deems necessary to
properly evaluate the plats submitted.
   (O)   Planning Commission recommendations. The Planning Commission shall
reject or approve the final plat and have prepared a recommendation to the
Board of Trustees recommending rejection or approval. All reasons for
recommending rejection shall be clearly stated. Notification of approval or
rejection by the Planning Commission or Board of Trustees shall be given the
subdivider within 60 days after submission of the final plat to the Planning
Commission.
   (P)   Administrative subdivision. In the event that a proposed subdivision
does not involve the platting and dedication of streets, extension of utility
systems, change in subdivision class and type, change in zoning district,
change in surface drainage, and will not result in the creation of more than
three lots of record, the subdivider may apply for administrative subdivision
under the provisions of this section. The utilization of the administrative
subdivision does not relieve the subdivider of its obligation to comply with §§
152.07 and
152.08. The necessity of establishing and dedicating easements for utilities
shall not bar the utilization of the administrative subdivision. The procedure
for such application will be as follows.
      (1)   Application will be made to the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Trustees may act or may at their option refer the application to the Planning
Commission. In the event it is referred to the Planning Commission, the
procedures outlined under the final plat provisions shall be followed.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit an original and 11 copies of the plat.
The original shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth, Mylar, or similar
material, and shall be at a scale of 1" to 100' or larger. The plat shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Date, title, name, and location of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and locations of abutting streets and lots identifying
street names and lot and block numbers;
         (c)   Identification of the new lot and block numbers and set back
lines;
         (d)   Graphic scale and true north point;
         (e)   Monuments;
         (f)   Dimensions, angles, and bearings and complete legal description
of the property;
         (g)   Sufficient engineering data to reproduce any line on the ground;
         (h)   Location, dimensions, and purposes of any existing easements;
         (i)   Certification by surveyor or engineer certifying to the accuracy
of the survey and plat; and
         (j)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding
title or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted.
      (3)   The plat shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Protective covenants in form for recording if such are desired
by the subdivider;
         (b)   For subdivisions adjoining or touching the boundaries of the
village corporate limits, a tract or area for which annexation proceedings have
village commenced; and an approved subdivision which touches or adjoins the
village corporate limits, a petition signed by the owner or owners requesting
annexation to the village; and
         (c)   Utility easements signed by the owner or owners to permit all
lots created access to all utilities available in the village, including, but
not limited to, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, electrical, telephone, and
cable television.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.07 STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS, AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Streets. The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade, and
location of all streets shall conform to the Comprehensive Development Plan and
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets.
   (B)   Street extension. The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall
provide for the continuation of appropriate projection of streets and alleys
already existing in areas being subdivided. Where, at the determination of the
Board of Trustees, it is desirable to provide street access to adjoining
properties, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundaries
of such properties. Where the Board of Trustees deems it necessary, such dead-
end streets shall be provided with a temporary turnaround having a radius of at
least 60 feet. The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but in no case shall a
street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in these
regulations for a street in its category.
   (C)   Dedication of right-of-way for new streets. The dedication of right-
of-way for new streets measured from lot line to lot line shall be as shown on
the Comprehensive Development Plan. All streets classified as arterial streets
by the Comprehensive Development Plan shall have all points of access approved
by the Board of Trustees. Marginal access streets may be required by the Board
of Trustees for subdivisions fronting on arterial streets.
   (D)   Dedication of right-of-way for existing streets. Subdivisions platted
along existing streets shall dedicate additional right-of-way if necessary to
meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in this chapter. The
entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where the subdivision is
on both sides of an existing street. When the subdivision is located on only
one side of an existing street, one-half of the required right-of-way width,
measured from the centerline of the existing roadway, shall be dedicated.
Dedication of one-half of the right-of-way form proposed streets along the
boundaries of land proposed for subdivision shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Intersections. Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at an
angle of 90 degrees, and no intersection shall be at any angle of less than 60
degrees. Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20
feet. When the smallest angle of street intersection is less than 75 degrees,
the Board of Trustees may require curb radii of greater length. Wherever
necessary to permit the construction of a curb having a desirable radius
without reducing the sidewalk at a street corner to less than normal width, the
property line at such street corner shall be rounded or otherwise set back
sufficiently to permit such curb construction. No lot or other parcel of land
which abuts on and has access to either a collector or a minor street shall
have a service drive, curb cut, or other means of access to an arterial street
within 50 feet of the right-of-way of any street which intersects such arterial
street on the side on which such lot or parcel is located.
   (F)   Widths, grades, and sight distance requirements.
      (1)   Right-of-way widths, pavements widths, grades, and sight distance
requirements shall be as follows.
Type Right-of-Way Pavement Grade Minimum Sight Distance on Curves
Type               Right-of-Way Pavement        Grade       Minimum Sight
                                                            Distance on Curves
Alleys             20'          20' residential No maximum  None
                               20' commercial  No maximum  None
Arterial street    *100'        46'             8%          400'
Collector streets  *70'         44'             10%         300'
Cul-de-sac streets 100'         40'             10% average 200'
Local streets      60'          22' w/ 6'       10% average 300'
                                shoulders
Marginal access    60'          22' w/ 6'       10%         300'
streets                         shoulders
*Streets in these classifications shall be designed and graded to the full
right-of-way widths stated
 
      (2)   The horizontal alignment on all streets except in unusual cases as
determined by the Planning Commission shall as follows.
 
Street Type Radii of Horizontal Curves (Minimum Feet)
Arterial    700
Collector   300
Local       100
 
   (G)   Marginal access streets.
      (1)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the village may require access streets, reverse frontage with
screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property
line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through and local traffic.
      (2)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon or contains an existing
or proposed arterial street or highway or which traffic volumes and vehicular
speeds warrant special safety considerations, the village may require that
marginal access streets be provided in order that no lots front on such
existing or proposed arterial street or highway.
      (3)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railway right-of-way
or limited access highway right-of-way, the village may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes
in residential districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   (H)   Street jogs. Street jogs with center line off-sets of less than 125
feet shall be prohibited. Cul-de-sacs, minor terminal, or dead-end streets or
courts which are designed so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be
longer than 500 feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround
having a radius at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 100 feet.
   (I)   Street names. Proposed streets which are in alignment with other
already existing and named streets shall bear the names of such existing
streets. The name of a proposed street which is not in alignment with an
existing street shall not duplicate the name of any existing street,
irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place,
court, lane, road, pike, highway, parkway, or similar suffix. Whenever a street
alignment changes direction more than 45 degrees without a return to the
original alignment within a distance of 500 feet, then the name of the street
shall be changed at the point of curvature. Whenever a cul-de-sac street serves
not more than three lots, the name of the intersecting street shall apply to
the cul-de-sac. To avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names of all
streets shall be approved by the designated Village Engineer prior to such
names being assigned or used.
   (J)   Private streets and reserve strips. There shall be no private streets
platted within a subdivision. There shall be no reserve strips in a subdivision
except where their control is definitely vested in the village or county under
conditions approved by the Board of Trustees as authorized herein.
   (K)   Grading specifications. All streets, roads, and alleys shall be graded
to their full widths by the subdivider, so that street pavements and sidewalks
can be constructed on the same level plane. Deviation from this standard due to
special topographical conditions will be allowed only with the approval of the
Board of Trustees. Before grading is started, the entire right-of-way area
shall be first cleared of all tree stumps, roots, brush, and other
objectionable materials and of all trees not intended for preservation. The
subgrade shall be properly shaped, rolled, and uniformly compacted to conform
to the accepted cross-section and grades. In cuts and fills, all tree stumps,
boulders, organic material, soft clay, spongy material, and other objectionable
materials shall be removed to a depth of at least two feet below the graded
surface. This objectionable matter, as well as similar matter from cuts, shall
be removed from the right-of-way area and disposed of in such a manner that it
will not become incorporated in fills or hinder proper operation of the
drainage system.
   (L)   Minimum pavement widths. Pavement widths shall be measured between
curb backs.
   (M)   Street surfacing. The streets in the proposed subdivision shall be
paved, including curbs and gutters, and street surfacing shall be of concrete
or any other suitable surface as recommended by the designated Village Engineer
and approved by the Board of Trustees. Requirements for paving, including curb
and gutter, may be waived at the request of the subdivider. Streets in such
subdivision shall have a crushed rock or gravel surface which meets the
specifications of the village.
   (N)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be provided as required by the
Village Engineer. In areas of notable flash flooding or heavy rain run-off,
curbs shall be required on all streets designed for areas where the existing or
anticipated residential density of the areas surrounding the proposed
subdivision equals or exceeds three dwelling units per net acre. In commercial
developments, or where other similar intensive urban uses exist or are
anticipated, curbs shall be required. Where curbs exist on abutting properties,
their extension shall be required throughout the proposed subdivision. All curb
and gutter shall be constructed in conformance with the minimum standards of
the village and as approved by the Village Engineer.
   (O)   Blocks. Except in unusual circumstances, the maximum length of blocks
shall be 1,320 feet.
   (P)   Street name signs. Street name signs, of a type in use throughout the
village, shall be erected by the subdivider at all intersections.
   (Q)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided to give access to the rear of all lots
used for commercial and industrial purposes. Minimum width of an alley shall be
16 feet. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided,
but where necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe
vehicular movement.
      (2)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate facilities at the dead-end, as
determined by the Board of Trustees. Alleys need not be provided in residential
areas where the subdivider produces evidence of easements which are
satisfactory to the Board of Trustees.
   (R)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided as required by village
ordinances and shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete or other
acceptable materials as approved by the Board of Trustees. Sidewalk thickness
shall be not less than four inches and sidewalk width not less than four feet.
   (S)   Driveways. Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10%. Driveways and
curb cuts shall be located not less than three feet from the side lot lines.
Curb cuts for straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be three feet
wider than the driveway pavement on each side.
   (T)   Street and walkway lighting. The streetlights shall be installed by
the village. Such lights shall be located at each street and walkway entrance
to the subdivision. In addition, whenever the distance between two adjacent
streets or walkway lights would exceed 300 feet, then additional street lights
shall be installed in such manner that proper light intensity shall be provided
and maintained. New subdivision street and walkway lighting may be installed
with all associated wiring underground or overhead, as required by the village.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.08 UTILITY AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Sewer and water.
      (1)   It shall be required that the owner or developer of the tract to be
subdivided install, satisfactory sewer, and water lines which are necessary to
serve such subdivision. Installation of the above shall be in accordance with
the specifications of the village and under the direction and supervision of
the Board of Trustees. Where adequate water and sewer lines are accessible
within 1,320 feet of the final plat, connections to these lines shall be made.
Water lines shall be looped according to specifications set by the Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   The cost of providing this engineering service will be the
responsibility of the owner or developer of the tract to be subdivided or by
other agreement with the village. Design of municipal water mains and sanitary
sewer lines shall conform to standards and guidelines approved by the Village
Engineer.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer improvements. The following requirements shall govern
sanitary sewer improvements.
      (1)   Where an adequate public sanitary sewer system is reasonably
accessible in the determination of the Board of Trustees, public sanitary
sewers shall be installed to adequately serve all lots, including lateral
connections to the public system. Public sewer system extensions shall meet the
requirements of the village standards and the State Department of Environmental
Quality and the Department of Health and Human Services System. Combinations of
sanitary sewers and storm sewers shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Where a public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible,
the subdivider may provide:
         (a)   A central treatment plant; provided that such central treatment
plant is installed in accordance with the village and State Department of
Environmental Quality and Department of Health and Human Services System
requirements; or
         (b)   Lots may be served by individual disposal systems, if the
provisions of §
152.09 are met.
      (3)   (a)   Where the installation of individual disposal systems is
considered, the suitability of the soil for individual systems, the absorptive
ability of the soil, surface drainage, ground water level, and topography shall
be the criteria for determining whether or not the installation of individual
systems is permissible. Criteria shall be in accordance with the requirements
of the village and the State Department of Environmental Quality and Department
of Health and Human Services System.
         (b)   Each lot so served shall be of a size and shape to accommodate
the necessary length of tile field at a safe distance from and at a lower
elevation than the proposed buildings. Such lot size and shape shall conform to
the requirements of the zoning district in which they are located; provided
that in no case shall said minimum lot be less than one acre in area where
there is a public water supply available at the lot, and two and a half acres
where there is not public water supply available.
         (c)   At least one percolation test shall be made for each lot area
being platted, and each test shall be located in close proximity to the
proposed individual sewage disposal unit, be numbered and its location shown on
the preliminary plat. All percolation tests shall be performed in accordance
with the requirements of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Drainage improvements.
      (1)   An adequate system for the drainage of all surface water within the
area being subdivided, including ditches, pipes, culverts, intersectional
drains, drop inlets, bridges, and other structures, shall be constructed by the
developer. Such drains shall comply as to size with such requirements,
conformable to good engineering practice, as the Board of Trustees shall
prescribe; provided that such drains in no event shall be less than 12 inches
in diameter. Cross drains shall be constructed to accommodate all natural water
flow, be built on a straight line and grade, be laid on a firm base but not on
rock and be of sufficient length to permit construction of streets and alleys
to their required width and grades. Surface drainage pipes shall be laid with
the spigot end pointed in the direction of the flow, and all ends shall be
fitted and matched to provide tight joints and a smooth uniform invert.
      (2)   Such pipes shall be placed at a depth below the road bed that is
sufficient to avoid dangerous pressure from impact, and the top, in no event,
shall be less than one foot below the surface of the road bed.
      (3)   A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area,
whether inside or outside the subdivision. The Village Engineer shall determine
the necessary size of the facility, based on the provisions of the construction
standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed
development permitted by
Chapter 151.
      (4)   The Village Engineer shall also study the effect of each
subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the
subdivision. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the
development or the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage
facility or flood existing development upstream, the Planning Commission may
withhold approval of the subdivision until provision has the village made for
the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the Planning
Commission shall determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate
drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
      (5)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development be
required to assure that all such proposals are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage; all public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage; and adequate drainage is provided so as to
reduce exposure to flood hazards so as to assure that all building sites are
reasonably safe from flood hazards.
      (6)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot into areas not designed to
handle flood waters. Lot drainage plans shall conform to the drainage study
required for submittal approval.
   (D)   Storm sewers and storm water drainage. Where an adequate public storm
sewer system is available at the plat boundary, the village shall construct a
storm sewer system and connect with such storm sewer line. If such a storm
sewer system is not accessible, natural drainage channels with easement of
adequate width shall be provided, as determined by the Village Engineer and
approved by the Board of Trustees. Paved gutters or storm sewers shall be
required if velocities are greater than specified in these regulations or cause
destructive erosion. Storm drainage, including drain tile around basements,
shall not be permitted to discharge into any sanitary sewer facility, but shall
connect to an adequate drainage outlet.
   (E)   Culverts and bridges. Where natural drainage channels intersect any
street right-of-way, it shall be the responsibility of the village to have
satisfactory bridges and/or culverts constructed. Where culverts are required,
minimum requirements shall be observed as follows.
      (1)   All culverts shall extend across the entire right-of-way width of
the proposed street. The cover over the culvert and its capacity shall be
determined by the Village Engineer. The minimum diameter of a culvert pipe
shall be 18 inches. Depending on existing drainage conditions, head walls may
be required.
      (2)   Driveway culverts shall have a minimum length of 20 feet, and a
minimum diameter of 18 inches. The driveway culverts shall be laid so as to
maintain the flow lines of the ditch or gutter. Head walls may be required.
   (F)   Solar access.
      (1)   In order to promote the conservation of energy through the use of
both passive and active solar systems, streets in residential subdivisions
should, where possible, have an east-west alignment. Lots intended for detached
dwellings should be of sufficient width to allow the structure to be built with
its longest axis running east-west.
      (2)   In order to allow the orientations of structures on the site so as
to maximize potential solar gain, side lot lines should run as near to north-
south as possible providing that the angle between the side of lot line and the
street right-of-way line on a straight street or the tangent to a curved street
shall not be less than 80 degrees.
      (3)   Any property owner or developer may grant or establish a solar sky-
space easement to protect solar energy systems from shade. The easements shall
be created in writing and shall be recorded separately or should be contained
on the face of the plat. The easements shall run with the land.
   (G)   Erosion control. The subdivider shall be required to provide for the
control of erosion of areas of the subdivision which are disturbed by grading
operations by constructing temporary terraces on slopes, temporary silting
basins, sod swales, and spillways, and whatever may be necessary to prevent
erosion and damage to adjacent properties from surface drainage as approved by
the village and the Village Engineer.
   (H)   Fire protection. Fire hydrants shall be provided by the village in all
subdivisions with public water supplies. The hydrants shall be located between
property lines and curbs with all outlets facing or parallel to the street.
Hydrants shall be placed at the corners of all blocks and mid-block for blocks
exceeding 800 feet in length. Hydrants shall also be required at the entrance
and end of all cul-de-sacs exceeding 400 feet in length. The type of hydrant
and control valves and the location of the hydrant shall be approved by the
Fire Chief. The minimum size of any water line serving any hydrant shall not be
less than six inches in diameter and should be circulating water lines. The
size and location of water lines shall be approved by the Village Engineer and
the Fire Chief.
   (I)   Electric, gas, and telephone improvements.
      (1)   Electric service and telephone service shall be provided within
each subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably accessible.
Whenever such facilities are reasonably accessible and available, they may be
required to be installed within the area prior to the approval of the final
plat. Telephone, electric, street lighting, and communications conductors may
be installed underground at the option of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Overhead secondary utility lines, where installed shall be located
at the rear of all lots.
      (3)   Whenever a sanitary sewer line and electric and/or telephone line
is each placed underground in the same utility easement, the following
provisions shall be applicable:
         (a)   The total easement width shall not be less than 15 feet; and
         (b)   The sanitary sewer line shall be installed within three feet of
the easement, and the electric and/or telephone line shall be installed within
three feet of the opposite side of the easement.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.09 SHARED IMPROVEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Extensions to boundaries. The subdivider may be required to extend the
necessary improvements to the boundary of the proposed subdivision to serve
adjoining un-subdivided land, as determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Off-site extensions. If street or utilities are not available at the
boundary of a proposed subdivision, and if the Board of Trustees finds the
extensions across undeveloped areas would not be warranted as a special
assessment to the intervening properties or as a municipal expense until some
future time, the subdivider may be required, prior to the approval of the final
plat, to obtain necessary easements or right-of-way and construct and pay for
such extensions. Such improvements shall be available for connections by
subdividers of adjoining land.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.10 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements guarantees.
      (1)   Prior to the final plat approval, but after approval of all
improvement plans and specifications, the subdivider shall complete all
improvements required for the subdivision. Final plat approval shall not be
given until the dedication of all appropriate improvements and acceptance
thereof by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   In lieu of requiring the completion of all improvements prior to
the final plat approval, the Board of Trustees may enter into an agreement with
the subdivider whereby the subdivider shall guarantee to complete all
improvements required by this chapter and approved by the Planning Commission
and Board of Trustees in a manner satisfactory to the Board of Trustees. To
secure this agreement, the subdivider shall provide, subject to the approval of
the Board of Trustees, one or more of the guarantees.
   (B)   Surety performance bond. The subdivider shall obtain a performance
bond from a bonding company authorized to do business in the state. The bond
shall be payable to the village and shall be in an amount to cover 110% of the
cost of all improvements, as estimated by the subdivider and accepted by the
Board of Trustees upon recommendations of the Village Attorney and Engineer.
The duration of the bond shall be until such time as the improvements are
accepted by the Board of Trustees in accordance with division (J) below.
   (C)   Escrow account. The subdivider shall deposit cash, or other instrument
readily convertible to cash at face value, either with the Board of Trustees or
in escrow with a bank. The use of any instrument other than cash, and in the
case of an escrow account, the bank with which the funds are to be deposited,
shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees. The amount of the
deposit shall be an amount equal to 110% of the estimated cost of all required
improvements as estimated by the subdivider and accepted by the Board of
Trustees upon recommendation of the Village Engineer.
   (D)   Security agreement.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide a security agreement guaranteeing the
installation of all required improvements. The security agreement must be
approved by the Village Attorney and in an amount sufficient to guarantee the
installation of all improvements.
      (2)   In the case of an escrow account, the subdivider shall file with
the Board of Trustees an agreement between the bank and himself or herself
guaranteeing the following.
         (a)   The funds of said escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the Board of Trustees and may not be used or pledged by the
subdivider as security in any other matter during that period.
         (b)   That in the case of a default on the part of the subdivider to
complete said improvements, the bank shall immediately make the funds of said
account available to the Board of Trustees for use in completion of the
improvements.
   (E)   Improvement assessment district. Because the original intent of such
improvements in already built-up areas, and because the village should not
assume the risk of real estate development which results if the lots are unable
to be sold and the subdivider defaults on the assessment payments, the use of
improvement districts in connections with new subdivision developments shall
not be used as a method of financing such improvements. Only in specific cases
where the subdivider illustrates through extensive market research will the
Board of Trustees consider acceptances of an improvement district as a means of
financing the necessary improvements and providing financial security to the
village.
   (F)   Time limits. Prior to the granting of final plat approval, the
subdivider and the Board of Trustees shall agree upon a deadline for the
completion of all improvements. Such deadline shall not exceed two years from
the date of final plat approval; provided, however, the Board of Trustees may
extend that deadline for one additional year where the subdivider present
substantial reason for doing so and provides any additional performance surety
made necessary due to inflation or increased cost of completing the
improvements.
   (G)   Installation of improvements. Developers may select either method or
combination of methods listed below to comply with the minimum improvement
requirements.
      (1)   They may install the required improvements upon acceptance of plans
and specifications being approved by Village Engineer and Board of Trustees.
      (2)   They may submit a petition or petitions requesting the village to
construct street surfacing, sanitary sewer, and water mains in the proposed
subdivision by the district method. In that event, the village will prepare
plans and specification for all such improvements districts and shall assess
the cost of such improvements to the adjacent property, as provided by law. The
size of any street improvement district, sanitary sewer district, or water main
district, shall be determined by the Board of Trustees and the construction of
any such district shall be subject to the village’s ability to finance any of
the improvements.
   (H)   Plan review reimbursement. The subdivider or sanitary and improvements
district shall reimburse the village such costs incurred by the village for
plan review, plan check, and plan approval as to conformance with approved
village standards and specifications, but such costs shall not exceed 1% of the
total contracted cost for improvements in the subdivision.
   (I)   Failure to complete improvements.
      (1)   If any portion of the required improvements shall fail to be
completed and accepted for dedication in compliance with division (J) below
within the required time period, either for reason of non-completion or for
reason of substandard and unacceptable construction, the Board of Trustees
shall accept one of the following sections.
         (a)   Where improvements have the village guaranteed under division
(B) above, the bond shall be forfeited to the village.
         (b)   Where improvements have village guaranteed under division (C)
above, the Board of Trustees shall declare whatever security has the village
pledged as a guarantee to be forfeited.
      (2)   Where the Board of Trustees is not already in possession of said
security, it shall immediately take the actions necessary to obtain it. Upon
receipt of the security, the Board of Trustees shall use such to finance the
completion of the improvements or rebuilding of substandard improvements.
Unused portions of the surety shall be returned to the subdivider without
interest.
   (J)   Inspection and certification.
      (1)   The Village Engineer or other authorized person shall regularly
inspect construction of required improvements for defects. Upon completion of
the improvements, the Village Engineer or other authorized person shall file
with the Board of Trustees a statement either certifying that the improvements
have the village completed in the specified manner or listing defects in those
improvements which do not meet the requirements of the approved improvement
plans and specifications.
      (2)   Upon completion of the improvements, the subdivider shall file with
the Board of Trustees a statement stipulating the following:
         (a)   All required improvements are complete;
         (b)   These improvements are in compliance with the minimum standards
specified by the Planning Commission and Board of Trustees;
         (c)   The subdivider knows of no defects from any cause in the
improvements; or
         (d)   These improvements are free arid clear of any encumbrance or
lien.
      (3)   If the Village Engineer or other authorized person has certified
that the improvements are complete and free from defect, the Board of Trustees
shall accept any dedication of improvements. The Board of Trustees may, at its
discretion, accept the dedication of any portion of the improvements provided
that all statements and agreements specified above have the village received
for that portion of the improvements.
   (K)   Reduction of guarantees. In those cases where improvement guaranteed
have the village made under divisions (B) or (C) above, the amount of the
guarantee may be reduced upon acceptance in compliance with division (J) above
of the dedication of a portion of the improvements.
   (L)   Release of guarantees. Upon acceptance, in accordance with this
chapter, the Board of Trustees shall authorize the release of the performance
bond or the remaining portion of the escrow.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.11 DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LAND.
   (A)   At the time of final plat approval by the Board of Trustees, the
owners shall be required to dedicate to the public use all streets, alleys,
easements, and buffer strips as required by the Board of Trustees and this
chapter. Acceptance of dedicated land shall be recorded in the minutes of the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Subdividers of commercial type subdivisions may be required to
dedicate land for off-street parking as determined necessary by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.12 ANNEXATION AND RECORDING OF PLAT.
   (A)   Subdivision annexation of adjoining or contiguous properties. All
subdivisions or additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate
limits shall be included within the same and become a part of the municipality
for all purposes whatsoever, upon approval of and acceptance by resolution of
the Board of Trustees (Neb. RS 19-916).
   (B)   Subdivision annexation; petition for annexation. Any subdivision in
which there are lands dedicated to the village or any subdivision serviced by
public utilities shall be annexed to the village. Before approval for the final
plat is given, the municipal body shall receive a petition for annexation from
the owners of the subdivided properties.
   (C)   Subdivision annexation; adoption plan by resolution.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees desiring to annex land under the authority of
this section shall first adopt both a resolution stating that the village is
considering the annexation of the land and a plan for extending village
services to the land. The resolution shall state:
         (a)   The time, date, and location of the public hearing required
below;
         (b)   A description of the boundaries of the land proposed for
annexation; and
         (c)   The plan of the village for extension of village services to the
land proposed for annexation is available for inspection during regular
business hours in the office of the Village Clerk.
      (2)   The plan adopted by the Board of Trustees shall contain sufficient
detail to provide a reasonable person with a full and complete understanding of
the intentions of the village for extending village services to the land
proposed for annexation. The plan shall:
         (a)   State the estimated cost impact of providing the services to
such land;
         (b)   State the method by which the village plans to finance the
extension of services to the land and how any services already provided to the
land will be maintained;
         (c)   Include a timetable for extending service to the land proposed
for annexation; and
         (d)   Include a map drawn to scale clearly delineating the land
proposed for annexation, the current boundaries of the village, the proposed
boundaries of the village after annexation, and the general land use pattern in
the land proposed for annexation.
      (3)   A public hearing on the proposed annexation shall be held within 60
days following the adoption of the resolution to allow the Board of Trustees to
receive testimony from interested persons. The Board of Trustees may recess the
hearing, for good case, to a time and date specified at the hearing.
A copy of the resolution providing for the public hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper or the village at least once not less than ten days
preceding the date of the public hearing. A map drawn to scale delineating the
land proposed for annexation shall be published with the resolution. A copy of
the resolution providing for the public hearing shall be sent by first-class
mail, following its passage, to the school board of any school district in the
land proposed for annexation.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.13 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Granting of variances; conditions. The Board of Trustees may grant
variances from the provisions herein, but only after determining that:
      (1)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the
property;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question; and
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the adjacent property.
   (B)   Recording of plat. In no case shall the requirement of filing and
recording a plat for subdivision be waived.
   (C)   Planned development. The Board of Trustees may also grant reasonable
variances, if the subdivider concurrently submits an application for, and
obtains approval of, a planned development. The subdivider shall indicate where
the plans vary from the requirements of this suchapter and shall present
sufficient evidence to support the request, indicating why the request will not
be detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.14 WAIVER FOR SMALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The subdivider may make application for, and the Board of Trustees may
grant, a waiver of some or all of the requirements provided for herein for
small residential, commercial, and industrial subdivisions where the following
conditions exist:
   (A)   The subdivision contains no more than four lots, which total area of
said lots shall not exceed one half acre each, and conform to existing zoning
ordinances;
   (B)   All lots of the proposed subdivisions shall be platted on existing
streets;
   (C)   Surfaces of all streets serving the subdivision meet, or exceed,
street surface standards of the village;
   (D)   Public water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer system facilities are
available to all lots in the subdivision;
   (E)   The development of the subdivision will not increase erosion or
flooding potential; and
   (F)   The subdivider demonstrates to the Board of Trustees that said
development is in conformity with the potential development of abutting
property. A subdivider requesting a waiver hereunder shall submit said request
in writing to the Board of Trustees prior to the submission of a preliminary
plat. The request for a waiver shall include a list of all requirements for
which a waiver is sought by reference to code numbers and descriptive headings.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
§ 152.15 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Recreation standards. The Planning Commission may require that land be
dedicated for parks and playgrounds or other recreation purposes. Such areas
shall be shown and marked on both the preliminary and final plat, as “dedicated
for park and/or recreation purpose.” The developer shall dedicate all such
recreation areas to the village as a condition of final subdivision plat
approval. The Commission may require that the recreation area be located at a
suitable place on the edge of the subdivision so that additional land may be
added at such time as the adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area
of less than one acre be reserved for recreation purposes if it will be
impractical or impossible to secure additional lands in order to increase its
area.
   (B)   Recreation sites. Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a
character and location suitable for use as a playground, playfield, or for
other recreation purposes; and shall be improved by the developer to the
standards required by the Planning Commission, which improvements shall be
included in the performance bond. A recreation site shall have a total frontage
on one or more streets of at least 100 feet, and no other dimension of the site
shall be less than 100 feet unless it is for a designated linear park. The
Planning Commission may refer any subdivision proposed to contain a dedicated
park to the Park Board for a recommendation. All land to be reserved for
dedication to the village for park purposes shall have prior approval of the
Board of Trustees and shall be shown marked on the plat “dedicated for park.”
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
 § 152.16 AMENDMENTS.
   Any provision herein from time to time may be amended, supplemented,
changed, modified, or repealed by the governing body according to law;
provided, however, that such amendments, supplements, changes, modifications,
or repealed provisions shall not become effective until after study and report
and recommendations of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 8- -2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   SALES, LEASES AND PURCHASES
      
II.   LAND DIVISIONS AND PLATTING
      
III.   EASEMENTS AND VACATIONS
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
      
V.   ZONING CHANGES
      
VI.   BONDS
      
VII.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: SALES, LEASES AND PURCHASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
590  6-10-  Acquiring interest in real estate located beyond corporate limits for
     2013   municipal water works purposes.
600  10-13- Releasing interest in real estate pertaining to municipal well field and
     2014   easements for the water transmission main.
     6-13-  Confirming sale of Lots 1, 2 of Block 7, Peebles Main Street Addition,
612  2016   and Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 of Block 24, First Addition to Pender Community
            Development, Inc.
657  3-8-   Approving lease-purchase of certain equipment for village use.
     2021
661  5-24-  Confirming sale of certain real estate owned by the village to Welsh
     2021   Development, LLC.
     12-27- Confirming sale of tract of land in Block 1, Whitcomb’s First Addition,
669  2021   Section 27, Township 25 North, Range 6, east of the sixth principal
            meridian.
691  3-25-  Confirming sale of certain real estate owned by the village to SJKC, LLC.
     2024
692  5-13-  Authorizing total power requirements power purchase agreement with the
     2024   Municipal Energy Agency of Nebraska.
           
 
TABLE II: LAND DIVISIONS AND PLATTING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
603      8-10-2015   Approving final plat of Northview Estates Addition.
606      12-14-2015  Creating Street Improvement Districts Nos. 2016-1 and
                     2016-2.
608      12-14-2015  Creating Street Improvement District No. 2016-3.
                     Approving plat of Rose Hill Fourth Addition at Section 28,
686      6-12-2023   Township 25 North, Range 6, east of the sixth principal
                     meridian
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS AND VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating Norris Avenue between Lot 12, Block 8, Peebles
611      6-13-2016   Main Street Addition, and Lot 1, Block 7, Peebles Main
                     Street Addition, and reserving a utility easement to the
                     village.
                     Consenting to prior vacation of alley in Block 27, Hill
617      1-9-2017    Addition, and providing for a utility easement to the
                     village.
                     Granting easement in part of Block 8, Peebles Main Street
619      4-10-2017   Addition, from the village to Pender Community
                     Development, Inc.
690      11-13-2023  Vacating portion of Park Street that lies south of Block 1
                     and north of Block 2 and east of Block 3 in Park Addition.
                    
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed    Description
                     Annexing certain land west of Slaughter Avenue in the E1/
655      3-8-2021    2NW1/4 Section 27, Township 25 North, Range 6, east of the
                     sixth principal meridian.
675      6-14-2022   Annexing a certain tract of land west of and contiguous to
                     the current limits.
                    
 
TABLE V: ZONING CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
623      9-11-2017   Changing certain properties from R1 Residential to C1
                     Commercial.
625      12-11-2017  Changing certain properties from R1 Residential to C1
                     Commercial.
654      3-8-2021    Changing tract of land west of Slaughter Avenue from
                     Agricultural to Residential 2.
                     Changing tract of land in Section 34, Township 25 North,
667      10-25-2021  Range 6, east of the sixth principal meridian from
                     Agricultural to Commercial.
676      6-14-2022   Change certain real estate from AG Agricultural to R-
                     1 Single-Family Residential.
                    
 
TABLE VI: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
614      8-8-2016    Authorizing Street Improvement Bond Anticipation Notes,
                     Series 2016.
616      11-14-2016  Authorizing General Obligation Water Bonds, Series 2016.
620      8-14-2017   Authorizing General Obligation Various Purpose Bonds,
                     Series 2017.
628      5-15-2018   Authorizing Combined Utilities Revenue and Refunding
                     Bonds, Series 2018.
656      3-8-2021    Authorizing General Obligation Highway Allocation Fund
                     Pledge Bonds, Series 2021.
687      6-26-2023   Authorizing General Obligation Water Bonds, Series 2023.
                    
 
TABLE VII: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
477      4-9-2001    Granting non-exclusive cable television system franchise
                     to Huntel Cablevision, Inc.
683      3-27-2023   Adoption of Green Energy Program for electric utility
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cite Code Section
Neb. RS Cite            Code Section
3-501 et seq.           35.54
10-101 to 10-143        35.12
11-101                  30.03;
                        33.26
11-104                  33.25
11-105                  33.25
11-109                  33.25
11-110                  33.25
11-111                  33.25
11-112                  33.25
11-113                  33.25
11-114                  33.25
11-115                  33.25
11-116                  33.25
11-117                  33.25
11-118                  33.25
13-310                  92.36
13-311                  92.36
13-312                  92.36
13-313                  92.36
13-314                  92.36
13-403                  92.33
                        35.31;
13-501 et seq.          35.34;
                        35.35
13-503                  35.01
13-504                  35.28
13-505                  35.28
13-506                  35.29
13-507                  35.29
13-508                  35.30;
                        35.57
13-509                  35.30;
                        35.56
13-509.01               35.27
13-509.02               35.27
13-510                  35.33
13-511                  35.34
                        35.29;
13-518 to 13-522        35.30;
                        35.34
13-519                  34.04
13-606                  35.02
13-609                  35.14
13-801 et seq.          30.02
13-903                  35.05
16-318(3)               31.05
16-714 to 16-716        35.10
17-202                  30.01
17-203                  30.01
17-204                  30.03
17-205                  33.04
17-207                  10.99;
                        30.02
                        31.01;
17-208                  32.01;
                        91.01;
                        91.02
17-209                  33.40
                        30.01;
17-209.02               31.03;
                        33.40
17-210                  30.04;
                        30.25
17-213                  31.08
17-213.01               31.11
17-214                  31.07
17-503                  92.30
17-503.01               92.30
17-503.02               92.31
17-505                  10.99;
                        30.20
17-506                  35.51
17-507                  35.52
17-508                  92.66
17-509                  92.02
17-509 to 17-521        92.53
17-510 to 17-512        92.02
17-513 to 17-524        92.02
17-522                  92.53
17-524                  92.53
17-525                  110.01
                        93.02;
                        93.08;
17-526                  93.45;
                        93.48;
                        93.49
17-540                  35.11
17-541                  31.10
17-543                  31.10
17-547                  93.02
17-548                  93.08
                        92.04;
17-555                  131.02—
                        131.04
17-556                  131.01;
                        133.55
                        92.05;
17-557                  92.77;
                        131.02;
                        131.03
17-557.01               92.05
17-558                  92.68;
                        92.69
17-559                  92.68;
                        92.69
17-563                  91.16
17-567                  92.03;
                        92.65
17-568                  31.11
17-568.01               31.11;
                        35.03
17-601.01               34.09
17-601.02               34.09
17-601.03               34.09
17-602                  34.03
                        31.01;
17-604                  33.25;
                        33.40
17-605                  31.04
17-606                  31.05
17-606(2)               31.05
17-607                  35.09
17-608                  35.11
17-609                  35.11
17-610                  31.06
17-611                  33.40
17-612                  33.40
                        30.23;
17-613                  30.25—
                        30.27;
                        35.03
                        10.15;
17-614                  30.23;
                        30.24;
                        30.28
17-615                  30.26
17-616                  30.24
17-701                  35.25
17-702                  35.08;
                        35.55
17-703                  35.06
17-706                  35.31
17-708                  35.04
17-709                  35.04
17-710                  35.07
17-711                  35.04
17-714                  35.05
17-715                  35.05
17-718                  32.15
17-720                  35.10
17-919                  31.11
17-920                  131.04
17-948                  90.01
17-948 to 17-952        90.01
17-949                  90.01
17-951                  90.01
17-952                  32.04;
                        90.01
17-953 et seq.          32.15
17-953                  92.32
17-953.01               92.32
17-954                  92.32
18-131                  30.25
18-132                  30.20
18-305 to 18-312        33.41
18-1001 to 18-1006      92.30
18-1208                 110.01
18-1214                 35.58
18-1216                 35.06
18-1701                 31.04
18-1705                 92.66
                        10.99;
                        30.02;
                        91.15;
18-1720                 91.16;
                        130.03;
                        133.02;
                        150.31
18-1722                 10.99;
                        150.35
18-1722.01              150.32
18-1743                 150.03
18-1748                 92.72
18-1751                 92.02
18-1755                 92.34
18-1801 to 18-1805      35.12
18-2001 to 18-2004      92.67
18-2003                 92.67
18-2005                 92.66
18-2102.01              32.02
18-2715                 32.02
18-2801 et seq.         35.28;
                        35.35
18-2803                 35.35
18-2804                 35.02;
                        35.35
18-2805                 35.35
18-2806                 35.35
18-2807                 35.35
18-2808                 35.35
18-3301                 31.11
19-710                  91.22
19-901 et seq.          32.02;
                        32.03
19-901                  32.03
19-901 to 19-905        32.03
19-901 to 19-914        32.02;
                        32.03
19-901 to 19-915        32.03
19-903                  32.02
19-903 to 19-904.01     32.03
19-907                  32.03
19-908                  32.03
19-909                  32.03
19-910                  32.03
19-911                  32.03
19-912                  32.03
19-912.01               32.03
19-915                  30.28
19-916                  32.02
19-922                  30.20
19-925 to 19-933        32.02
19-926                  32.02
19-927                  32.02
19-928                  32.02
19-929                  32.02
19-929(3)               32.03
19-930 to 19-933        32.02
19-1101                 31.05
19-1102                 31.04
19-1103                 31.04;
                        31.05
19-1301                 35.08
19-1302                 35.08
19-1303                 35.08
19-1304                 35.08
19-1309                 35.53
19-1310                 35.53
19-1311                 35.53
19-1312                 35.53
19-2401                 92.02
19-2408 to 19-2415      92.02
19-2416                 92.66
19-2417 to 19-2419      92.53
19-2428 to 19-2431      92.02
19-2902                 35.02
19-2903                 35.02
19-2904                 35.02
19-2905                 35.02
19-2906 to 19-2909      35.02
19-3101                 30.07
19-3701                 30.27
20-203                  93.50
23-114.02               32.03
23-122                  31.04
25-505.01               34.11
25-1801                 50.03
25-21,275               50.03
25-21,276               50.03
25-21,277               50.03
25-21,278               50.03
25-2703                 30.20
28-109                  93.99
Chapter 28, Article 3   111.17
28-318                  134.01;
                        134.02
Chapter 28, Article 4   111.17
28-431                  133.40
28-515.02               50.02
28-519                  130.01
                        93.50;
28-520                  130.02;
                        130.99
                        93.50;
28-521                  130.02;
                        130.99
28-523                  90.02;
                        133.05
28-609                  132.01
28-610                  132.02
Chapter 28, Article 7   111.17
28-710 et seq.          134.01
Chapter 28, Article 8   111.17
28-801                  134.01
28-806                  134.02
28-830                  134.01
28-831                  134.01
28-833                  134.03
28-903                  132.03
28-904                  132.04
28-906                  132.05
28-907                  132.07
28-908                  132.06
Chapter 28, Article 10  111.17
28-1008                 93.06
28-1009                 93.06
28-1012                 93.06
28-1013                 93.06
Chapter 28, Article 11  111.17
28-1101                 134.03
28-1102                 134.03
28-1103                 134.03
28-1104                 134.03
28-1107                 134.03
28-1108                 134.03
28-1109                 134.03
28-1110                 134.03
28-1111                 134.03
28-1112                 134.03
28-1113                 134.03
28-1117                 134.03
Chapter 28, Article 12  111.17
28-1241                 91.40
28-1244                 91.40
28-1249                 91.40
28-1303                 133.06
28-1304                 133.03
28-1321                 130.03;
                        133.01
28-1322                 131.05
28-1418                 133.20
28-1419                 133.21
28-1420                 112.01
28-1420 to 28-1429      112.02
28-1421                 112.01
28-1422                 112.02
28-1423                 112.03
28-1424                 112.04
28-1425                 112.04;
                        112.07
28-1426                 112.05
28-1427                 133.21;
                        133.22
28-1428                 112.06
28-1429                 112.07
28-1601                 134.03
29-422 to 29-429        93.06
Chapter 29, Article 8   93.31
29-4003                 134.04
29-4013                 134.04
32-101                  30.01;
                        Ch. 34
                        34.01;
32-101 et seq.          34.06;
                        35.08;
                        35.54
32-110                  34.03
32-115                  34.03
32-404                  34.01;
                        34.05
32-405                  34.04;
                        34.11
32-532                  30.01
32-554                  30.01
32-556                  34.01
32-557                  30.01;
                        34.06
32-559                  34.04
32-560                  30.06;
                        30.07
32-560 to 32-572        30.06
32-561                  30.06
32-562                  34.11
32-567 to 32-570        34.11
32-569                  30.06
32-574                  34.11
32-602                  30.01
32-604                  30.01
32-606                  34.07
32-607                  34.07
32-608                  34.08;
                        34.10
32-616                  34.10
32-617                  34.10
32-618                  34.10
32-621                  34.10
32-622                  34.07
32-625                  34.07
32-625(2)               34.10
32-627                  34.07;
                        34.10
32-628                  34.10;
                        92.30
32-628 to 32-631        35.54
32-629                  34.10;
                        34.11
32-630                  34.10;
                        34.11
32-710                  34.10
32-802                  34.02;
                        35.54
32-918                  34.12
32-952 to 32-959        34.04
32-1202                 34.04
32-1301                 34.11
32-1302                 34.11
32-1303                 34.11
32-1304                 34.11
32-1305                 34.11
32-1306                 34.11
32-1307                 34.11
32-1308                 30.06;
                        34.11
32-1309                 34.11
32-1524                 34.12
32-1525                 34.12
33-139.01               32.17
33-141                  31.05
35-102                  32.17
35-103                  32.17
35-106                  110.01
35-108                  32.17
39-301                  131.03
39-302                  131.03
39-307                  133.04
39-602                  72.16
39-2512                 31.07
39-6,122                72.16
43-248                  134.01
45-623                  35.13
46-1212                 92.35
48-101 et seq.          32.17
48-115                  32.17
49-801(16)              10.05
49-1408                 33.41
49-1425                 33.41
49-1499.03 to 49-14,103 33.41
49-1499.04              33.41
49-14,102               33.41
49-14,103.01            33.41
49-14,103.02            33.41
49-14,103.03            33.41
49-14,103.04            33.41
49-14,103.05            33.41
49-14,103.06            33.41
51-201                  35.54
51-215                  35.08
51-216                  35.08
51-501                  35.54
52-601.01 to 52-605     133.40
53-103                  133.24
                        110.01;
                        111.03;
53-101 et seq.          111.15;
                        111.22;
                        111.25
53-101.01               111.48
53-102                  111.48
53-103.01 to 53-103.51  111.01;
                        133.24
53-103.23               133.23
53-116.01               111.19
53-118                  111.42
53-123.04(3)            133.25
53-123.11(1)(c)         133.25
53-123.12               111.18
53-124                  111.18;
                        111.21
53-124.01               111.18
53-124.12               111.21
53-124.15               111.40
53-124.17               111.18
53-125                  111.17
53-129                  111.18
53-131                  111.18;
                        111.50
53-132                  110.01;
                        111.18
53-133                  111.18;
                        111.40
                        111.18;
53-134                  111.49;
                        111.50
                        111.18;
53-134.03               111.42;
                        111.46;
                        111.48
53-134.04               111.25
53-135                  111.20
53-135.01               111.18;
                        111.20
53-148                  111.22
53-160                  110.01
53-167.02               111.47
53-167.03               111.47
53-168.06               111.15
53-175                  111.16
53-177                  111.40
53-177.01               111.40
53-178                  111.41
53-179                  111.43
53-180                  111.02
53-180.01               133.23
53-180.02               133.24
53-180.05               133.23
53-183                  111.44
53-184                  111.45
53-186                  111.03
53-186(2)               111.03
53-186.01               111.03
53-194.03               111.16
53-1,101                111.23
53-1,102                111.24
53-1,115                111.25
53-1,121                111.04
53-401 to 53-409        133.24
54-601                  93.48
54-603                  93.45
54-603(3)               93.45
54-605                  93.46
54-606                  93.48
54-607                  93.02
54-622.01               93.99
54-907 to 54-912        93.07
54-911                  93.07
54-912                  93.07
55-133                  70.01
56-602                  93.48
60-101 et seq.          35.58
60-136                  91.16
60-169                  133.40
                        35.58;
60-301                  72.09;
                        133.40
60-301 et seq.          35.58;
                        133.40
60-311.14               72.16
60-376                  133.40;
                        133.41
60-3,104                35.58
60-462                  70.07
60-4,126                73.05
60-606 to 60-676        70.01
60-607                  70.01
60-610                  70.01
60-613                  70.01
60-624                  70.01
60-631                  70.01
60-638                  70.01
60-646                  70.01
60-654                  70.01
60-656                  70.01
60-658.01               70.01
60-661                  70.01
60-669                  70.01
60-670                  70.01
60-671                  70.01
60-672                  70.01
60-676                  70.01
60-678                  70.02
60-680                  70.03;
                        72.01
60-681                  70.04
60-682                  70.99
60-682.01               71.99
60-683                  70.07
60-684 to 60-694.01     70.99
60-689                  70.99
60-699                  73.07;
                        73.25
60-6,108                70.05
60-6,110                70.08
60-6,114                70.10
60-6,118                70.01
60-6,119                70.09
60-6,121                70.06
60-6,129                71.03
60-6,130                71.04;
                        71.99
60-6,138                71.01
60-6,148                71.02
60-6,164                72.02
60-6,165                72.31
60-6,166                72.03
60-6,167                72.12
60-6,168                72.14
60-6,185                71.20
60-6,186                71.21
60-6,187                71.21;
                        71.23
                        71.21;
60-6,188                71.23;
                        71.99
60-6,189                71.22
60-6,190                71.23
60-6,211.08             111.03;
                        133.25
60-6,250                71.05
60-6,288                71.05
60-6,288 to 60-6,290    70.10
60-6,294                70.10
60-6,305                71.21;
                        71.23
60-6,313                71.21;
                        71.23
60-1901                 133.40
60-1902                 133.40
60-1903                 133.40
60-1903.01              133.40
60-1903.02              133.40
60-1904                 133.40
60-1905                 133.40
60-1906                 133.40
60-1907                 133.40
60-1908                 133.40
60-1909                 133.40
60-2410                 133.40
66-489                  110.01
66-489.02               110.01
66-4,140                110.01
66-4,145                110.01
66-4,146                110.01
70-624.04               33.41
70-1601                 50.01
70-1601 to 70-1615      50.02
                        52.07;
70-1602 et seq.         53.06;
                        54.06;
                        55.06
                        52.05;
70-1605 to 70-1615      53.04;
                        54.04;
                        55.04
                        52.05;
70-1614 et seq.         53.04;
                        54.04;
                        55.04
70-2103                 130.02
71-423                  111.04
71-1637                 35.54
71-4401                 93.25
71-4402                 93.26
71-4404                 93.26
71-4405                 93.26
71-4406                 93.27
71-4407                 93.28
71-4408                 93.08;
                        93.29
71-4410                 93.31
71-4411                 93.29
71-4412                 93.31;
                        93.45
71-4603                 133.40
72-1237 et seq.         35.11
72-1260 et seq.         35.11
Chapter 72, Article 14  92.32
Chapter 75, Article 3   133.25
77-1601                 35.56
77-1606                 35.54;
                        35.56
77-1632                 35.56
77-1633                 35.56;
                        35.57
77-1702                 35.14
77-1725.01              150.33
77-2201                 31.05
77-2201 to 77-2215      31.05
77-2202                 31.05
77-2209                 31.05
77-2210                 31.05
77-2212                 31.05
77-2341                 35.11
77-2362                 35.09
77-2363                 35.09
77-2364                 35.09
77-2365.01              35.09;
                        35.10
77-2366                 35.09;
                        35.10
77-2386                 35.09
77-2602                 110.01
77-2704.24              110.01
77-3001 et seq.         134.03
77-3442                 35.54;
                        90.01
77-3443                 35.54
77-3444                 34.04;
                        35.54
77-4008                 110.01
80-202                  35.54
81-201                  93.06
81-501.01 to 81-531     32.21
81-506                  32.24
81-512                  32.21
81-829.51               35.34
81-15,117 et seq.       32.21
81-3423                 92.35
81-3445                 92.35
81-3449                 92.35
81-3453                 92.35
84-304                  35.02
84-712 to 84-712.09     31.04;
                        31.05
84-712(2)               31.04
84-1201 et seq.         31.04
                        33.02;
84-1407 et seq.         33.08;
                        33.09
84-1408                 33.02
84-1409                 33.01;
                        35.57
84-1410                 33.07;
                        33.08
                        33.02;
84-1411                 33.03;
                        33.05;
                        33.06
84-1411(7)              33.02
84-1412                 33.09
84-1413                 33.11;
                        33.13
86-704                  110.01
                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         50.04
-        - -         52.02
-        - -         53.01
-        - -         72.11
-        - -         72.16
-        - -         72.17;
                     72.99
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. I
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. II
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. V
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. V
-        - -         Ch. 74, Schd. VI
-        - -         90.03
-        - -         92.052
-        - -         92.090—
                     92.101
-        - -         93.02
-        - -         93.50
-        - -         93.50
-        - -         93.50
-        - -         111.48
-        - -         111.49
-        - -         111.50
-        - -         113.02
-        - -         133.07;
                     133.99
-        - -         134.04
-        - -         134.05;
                     134.99
418      - -         111.05
665      - -         72.07;
                     72.99
210      3- -1975    93.01;
                     93.99
333      2-9-1987    50.05
-        12-14-1998  71.08;
                     71.99
461      1-11-1999   93.51
-        6-12-2000   71.07;
                     71.99
477      4-9-2001    TSO Table VII
-        8-12-2002   71.06
494      7-30-2003   93.02;
                     93.99
-        4-12-2004   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        3-12-2007   53.20—
                     53.23
-        4-9-2007    92.018
-        4-14-2008   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        12-15-2008  Ch. 74, Schd. II
-        4-10-2009   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
-        8-10-2009   Ch. 74, Schd. I
                     151.001—
                     151.009;
                     151.025—
                     151.028;
                     151.040—
                     151.046;
                     151.060—
                     151.064;
                     151.075—
                     151.081;
                     151.095—
-        8- -2010    151.097;
                     151.110—
                     151.118;
                     151.130—
                     151.134;
                     151.145—
                     151.151;
                     151.999;
                     Ch. 151, Appx. A,
                     Ch. 151, Appx. B;
                     152.01—
                     152.16
-        5-9-2011    111.43
-        6-11-2012   92.016
587      3-19-2013   151.130
588      5-13-2013   Ch. 74, Schd. III
590      6-10-2013   TSO Table I
594      8-11-2014   55.01—
                     55.06
595      8-11-2014   54.01—
                     54.06
596      8-11-2014   53.01—
                     53.06
597      8-11-2014   52.02—
                     52.07
600      10-13-2014  TSO Table I
602      6-8-2015    Ch. 74, Schd. II
603      8-10-2015   TSO Table II
606      12-14-2015  TSO Table II
608      12-14-2015  TSO Table II
609      12-14-2015  Ch. 74, Schd. I
611      6-13-2016   TSO Table III
612      6-13-2016   TSO Table I
614      8-8-2016    TSO Table VI
616      11-14-2016  TSO Table VI
617      1-9-2017    TSO Table III
619      4-10-2017   TSO Table III
620      8-14-2017   TSO Table VI
                     91.15—
621      8-14-2017   91.25;
                     91.99
622      8-14-2017   92.052
623      9-11-2017   TSO Table V
625      12-11-2017  TSO Table V
626      12-11-2017  55.21
628      5-15-2018   TSO Table VI
634      9-18-2018   52.08
635      9-18-2018   151.117
636      11-28-2018  35.50
647      11-9-2020   73.20—
                     73.26
                     36.001;
                     36.002;
                     36.015—
                     36.023;
                     36.035—
                     36.042;
                     36.055—
                     36.060;
                     36.075—
                     36.081;
                     36.095;
648      11-9-2020   36.096;
                     36.110—
                     36.124;
                     36.126;
                     36.127;
                     36.140—
                     36.153;
                     36.165—
                     36.169;
                     36.180;
                     36.195;
                     Ch. 36, Appx. A
653      3-8-2021    35.03
654      3-8-2021    TSO Table V
655      3-8-2021    TSO Table IV
656      3-8-2021    TSO Table VI
657      3-8-2021    TSO Table I
658      5-10-2021   33.04
659      5-24-2021   91.40
660      5-24-2021   73.01—
                     73.08
661      5-24-2021   TSO Table I
662      7-26-2021   92.016
663      7-26-2021   92.015
667      10-25-2021  TSO Table V
669      12-27-2021  TSO Table I
671      4-11-2022   55.20
                     54.07;
672      4-11-2022   54.20—
                     54.30
673      4-11-2022   53.20—
                     53.23
675      6-14-2022   TSO Table IV
676      6-14-2022   TSO Table V
679      12-13-2022  52.26
                     52.01;
680      12-13-2022  52.20—
                     52.25
682      2-13-2023   51.01—
                     51.03
681      2-27-2023   55.35—
                     55.39
683      3-27-2023   TSO Table VII
684      3-27-2023   93.45
685      4-24-2023   Ch. 74, Schd. I
686      6-12-2023   TSO Table II
687      6-26-2023   TSO Table VI
                     36.001;
                     36.002;
                     36.015—
                     36.023;
                     36.035—
                     36.042;
                     36.055—
                     36.060;
                     36.075—
                     36.081;
688      9-11-2023   36.095;
                     36.096;
                     36.110—
                     36.127;
                     36.140—
                     36.153;
                     36.165—
                     36.169;
                     36.180;
                     36.195;
                     Ch. 36, Appx. A
                     113.02;
689      8-28-2023   113.03;
                     113.09
690      11-13-2023  TSO Table III
691      3-25-2024   TSO Table I
692      5-13-2024   TSO Table I
693      7-8-2024    113.14
694      8-26-2024   55.07
695      8-26-2024   52.09
696      8-26-2024   53.07
699      2-24-2025   93.45
700      4-14-2025   55.20
701      4-14-2025   52.22
702      4-14-2025   52.23
703      4-14-2025   52.24
704      4-14-2025   52.25
705      4-14-2025   53.21
706      4-14-2025   53.22
707      4-14-2025   53.23
709      5-12-2025   33.04
                    
 
 
