PHILLIPS, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. No. 2023-4, passed 12-5-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Phillips Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Hamilton County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Phillips,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
      (Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this code, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall
be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall bear the following inscription:
“Village of Phillips, Hamilton County, Nebraska, Seal.” The Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall affix an impression of the official seal to all warrants,
licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official papers issued by order of
the governing body and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Seal; other powers, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES; LEGISLATION
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES; LEGISLATION
Section
Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.04   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.05   Standing committees
   
30.06   Vacancy
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.20   Grant of power
   
30.21   Resolutions and motions
   
30.22   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.23   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.24   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.25   Publication or posting
   
30.26   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.27   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.28   Amendments and revisions
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act. The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in that division, the term of each Board member
shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-602)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-209.02 and 32-
604
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair, and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government, and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances, not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act with a county in which the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the village is located to provide for joint and cooperative
action to abate, remove, or prevent nuisances within such extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such village and the county board of
such county shall first approve such interlocal agreement by ordinance or
resolution.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1720)
§ 30.03 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every village Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of Nebraska and faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties
of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on
the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter,
organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, and appoint the
officers required by law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-101
§ 30.04 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to
appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.06 VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-560, except as provided in Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village-elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented.
      (3)   The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in
favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee
fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and
the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name
of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy.
      (4)   If the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes,
the Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-560 through 32-
572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1308
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.20 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce and
manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties
for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable
with costs.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 25-2703
§ 30.21 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.22 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.22 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk-Treasurer who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the
substance of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.23 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Phillips, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-614)
§ 30.24 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for village board of trustees
election districts or wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments
of the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-
614
§ 30.25 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed: In a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village or, if no paper is published in the village,
then by posting a written or printed copy in each of three public places in the
village; or in book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-210
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-131
§ 30.26 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk-Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and
when and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and
where the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-615
§ 30.27 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.25 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths’ vote of the Board of Trustees and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s minutes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-613)
§ 30.28 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §
17-614
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds; requirements
   
31.02   Oath of office; village officials
   
31.03   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
31.04   Conflicts of interest involving contracts
   
31.05   Salaries of officials
   
31.06   Intergovernmental risk management
Appointed Officials
   
31.20   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.21   Merger of offices
   
31.22   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.23   Village Clerk
   
31.24   Village Treasurer
   
31.25   Village Attorney
   
31.26   Village Street Superintendent
   
31.27   County Sheriff as law enforcement officer
   
31.28   Fire Chief
   
31.29   Village Engineer; special engineer
Meetings
   
31.40   Definitions
   
31.41   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.42   Notice to news media
   
31.43   Emergency meetings
   
31.44   Closed sessions
   
31.45   Public participation
   
31.46   Order of business
   
31.47   Votes
   
31.48   Parliamentary procedure
   
31.49   Minutes
   
31.50   Change in office
   
31.51   Reorganizational meeting
   
31.52   Regular meetings
   
31.53   Special meetings
   
31.54   Videoconferencing
   
31.55   Telephone conference calls
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5 of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 11-101)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
31.04.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-611)
   (E)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.21, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if during
the same time the salary was increased.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-612)
§ 31.04 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 49-1499.04 or 70-
624.04, no officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her
governing body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an
interest in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract
or took assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited
conflict. An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be
brought by the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purpose of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by
this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-305
through 18-312 and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §
49-14,103.04
§ 31.05 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected officials of the village are hereby fixed as
follows:
   (A)   Chairperson of the Board of Trustees: $25 per quarter; and
   (B)   Trustees: $20 per quarter.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
§ 31.06 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC AGENCY. Any county, city, village, school district, public power
district, rural fire district or other political subdivision of the state, the
University of Nebraska and any corporation whose primary function is to act as
an instrumentality or agency of the state.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees and any one or more public agencies may make and
execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 44-
4301 et seq., to form, become members of and operate a risk management pool for
the purpose of providing to members risk management services and insurance
coverages in the form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including
any combination of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect
members against losses arising from any of the following:
      (1)   General liability;
      (2)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property,
including, but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or
extra expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
      (3)   Errors and omissions liability; and
      (4)   Workers’ compensation liability.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees and any one or more public agencies, other than
school districts and educational service units, may make and execute an
agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance with the act
to form, become members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to provide health, dental,
accident and life insurance to member’s employees and officers.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001) (Ord. 1-825, passed 7-2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 44-4303 and 44-4304
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Street Superintendent and Chief of Police, and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Chief of Police or any other
police officer may appeal to the Village Board for his or her removal, demotion
or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board of
Trustees may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the peremptory suspension or immediate removal from duty
of an officer by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by
this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of
orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer, Attorney, Street Superintendent, members
of the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular police
officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the Chairperson of
the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.21 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-209.02)
§ 31.22 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the governing
body by §
31.21.
(Prior Code, § 1-203)
§ 31.23 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-1201 et seq., the
Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees to
the State Archives of the State Historical Society for permanent preservation.
The Clerk shall also perform such other duties as may be required by the
ordinances of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 23-122.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her
office, including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank
book with a proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records
all petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be
done at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references
to all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all
warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the
same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report
of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants
drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed
in part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
Statutory reference:
   Records Management Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-1201 et seq.
§ 31.24 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson with the
advice and consent of the Board may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in
that year and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-
318(3) or 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 33-141 shall be charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 77-
2201 through 77-2215.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.25 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give it his or her opinion upon any matters submitted
to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall
draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and
other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other
duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Board
shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney compensation for legal
services performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Board and Attorney
may agree and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk-Treasurer as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a
valid and subsisting local law insofar as its passage and approval are
concerned.
§ 31.26 VILLAGE STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Street Superintendent shall, subject to the order of the Board of
Trustees, have general charge, direction and control of all works on streets,
sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the village and shall perform such other
duties as the Board may direct.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-214)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 39-2512
§ 31.27 COUNTY SHERIFF AS LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The County Sheriff shall direct the police work of the municipality and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act
as Health Inspector, except in the event the municipality appoints another
person to those offices. He or she shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of municipal ordinances and shall make all necessary
reports required by the municipal ordinances or the laws of the state.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-3901) (Prior Code, § 1-209)
§ 31.28 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
§ 31.29 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or furnished
by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building of culverts,
sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public heating
systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and the
erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall
have the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the
Village Engineer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-568)   
   (C)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-919
MEETINGS
§ 31.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the state constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1409)
§ 31.41 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
state constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s website; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-1407 et seq.
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1411(7)
§ 31.42 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the
secretary or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of
the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable
efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each
meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1411)
§ 31.43 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment. The provisions of §
31.42 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1411)
§ 31.44 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For the purpose of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1410)
§ 31.45 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
31.44, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1412)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-1407 et seq.
§ 31.46 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk-Treasurer and such other
village officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the
meeting place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for
consideration and disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on
file at the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 31.47 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1413)
§ 31.48 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of
parliamentary procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of
the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of
the Board of Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an
appeal to the Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be
seated until the point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the
question, no person shall leave the meeting room. Every person present,
previous to speaking, shall rise from his or her seat and address the presiding
officer and while speaking shall confine his or her comments to the question.
   (B)   When two or more persons rise at once, the Chairperson shall recognize
the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing
before being acted upon, if requested by the Village Clerk-Treasurer or any
member of the Board. Every member of the Board who is present when a question
is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the
members of the Board present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Board making the motion or resolution shall be
entered also.
   (C)   After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered in
the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Board seconding the resolution, motion or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds’ vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Board shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 31.49 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1413)
§ 31.50 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall meet at the regular meeting of
the Board in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and
outgoing members of the Board of Trustees shall present their reports, and upon
the outgoing Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall
surrender their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-204) (Prior Code, § 1-512)
§ 31.51 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Board of Trustees shall convene at the regular place
of meeting at the first regular meeting of the Board in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to
order. The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly
and properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as
are required. After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly
qualified, the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled
as Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The Chairperson shall then nominate
his or her candidates for appointive offices, and said officers shall hold
office until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Chairperson
shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the Board or of
its successors in office and of each officer hereafter elected to any office,
to qualify prior to the first regular meeting of the Board in December
following his or her election. Immediately upon the assembly of the newly
elected Board upon the first regular meeting in December following the
election, each officer elected at the general election shall take possession of
his or her office. Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall
qualify by filing the required bond, approved by the Board of Trustees, in the
office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer within two weeks from the date of his
or her said appointment; provided, that said bond shall be endorsed the same
oath as required of a Trustee.
   (C)   Failure to qualify by elective or appointive officers within the time
and manner provided in this section shall and does in itself create a vacancy
in the office to which said person failing to qualify shall have been elected
or appointed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-204) (Prior Code, § 1-513)
§ 31.52 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The meetings of the governing body shall be held at Village Hall.
Regular meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of each month at the hour
of 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   At all meetings of the Board of Trustees, a majority of the Board
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
(Prior Code, § 1-514)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-204, 17-205 and 17-210
§ 31.53 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson, or by three
members of the Board of Trustees, the object of which shall be submitted to the
Board in writing. The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof,
shall be entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. On filing
the call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time and
its purpose.
      (2)   Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a member of the
Board known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present. A
majority of the members of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day-to-day
and compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or
not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   (B)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson,
if present, or if absent, by the Chairperson pro tempore. All ordinances passed
at any special meeting shall comply with procedures set forth in §§
30.20 through
30.28.
(Prior Code, § 1-515)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-204 and 17-205
§ 31.54 VIDEOCONFERENCING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VIDEOCONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at two or
more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations.
   (B)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-825 et seq., the Joint Public Agency Act,
being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-2501 et seq., or the Municipal Cooperative
Financing Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2401 et seq., or of the governing
body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees, organized in
accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, being Neb. Rev.
Stat. §§ 44-4301 et seq., may be held by means of videoconferencing if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio or visual recording devices and a reasonable opportunity for input such
as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided
if videoconferencing were not used;
      (3)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the video conference;
      (4)   At least one member of the governing body or advisory committee is
present at each site of the video conference; and
      (5)   No more than one-half of the governing body’s or advisory
committee’s meetings in a calendar year are held by video conference.
   (C)   Videoconferencing shall not be used to circumvent any of the public
government purposes established in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-1408 through 84-1414.
(Prior Code, § 1-516) (Ord. 1-516, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-1409 and 84-1411
§ 31.55 TELEPHONE CONFERENCE CALLS.
   (A)   A meeting of the governing body of a joint entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-825 et seq., or of the
governing body of a risk management pool or its advisory committees, organized
in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act, being Neb. Rev.
Stat. §§ 44-4301 et seq., may be held by telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall
not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in
Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 84-1408 through 84-1414.
(Prior Code, § 1-517) (Ord. 1-517, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-1411(3)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Joint Planning Commission
   
32.02   Board of Adjustment
   
32.03   Board of Health
   
32.04   Tree Board
   
32.05   Memorial Hall Committee
   
32.06   Community Development Agency
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The village has entered into an agreement to be a member of the Hamilton
County Joint Planning Commission. The Chairperson, with the consent of the
Board of Trustees, shall appoint one resident of the village who shall be the
representative of the village for the purpose of the Hamilton County Joint
Planning Commission. Actual details of such agreement and related documents are
on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and available for public
inspection during reasonable office hours.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-804 and 19-925
§ 32.02 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The County Board of Zoning Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment
for the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-912.01
§ 32.03 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or health
care provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or
health care provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical
advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of
Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as secretary and
quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent
nuisances and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such
rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the General Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
§ 32.04 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Village Tree Board for the
village, which shall consist of at least three members, who shall be residents
of the village, and a village employee for the Village Board of Trustees, of
which one shall be named Village Forester with Village Tree Board voting
privileges. All Village Tree Board members shall be appointed by the
Chairperson with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The term of the Village Tree Board appointees shall be three years,
except that the terms of two of the members appointed to the first board shall
be for only two years, and the term of one member of the first board shall be
for one year. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, the replacement shall be appointed by the Chairperson with the consent
of the Board of Trustees for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Members of the Village Tree Board shall serve without salary but can,
with prior approval of the Board of Trustees, be reimbursed for expenses.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Village Tree Board to
study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer
a written plan for the care, including planting, culture, preservation,
pruning, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks,
streets, alleys and other lands owned or managed by the village. Such plan will
be presented annually to the Village Board of Trustees and, upon its acceptance
and approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive village tree plan.
      (2)   The Village Tree Board, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend back to the
Board of Trustees any matter of question coming within the scope of its work as
defined in this section.
   (E)   The Village Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
regulations and rules and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Quarterly
meetings shall be conducted at a minimum and shall be public meetings with
prior notice publicized.
   (F)   The Board of Trustees shall have the right to review the conduct, acts
and decisions of the Village Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or
order of the Village Tree Board to the Board of Trustees which may sustain,
reverse or modify the acts and decisions of the Village Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-204)
§ 32.05 MEMORIAL HALL COMMITTEE.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Memorial Hall Committee shall be composed of six couples and
one individual. The one individual represents the village and shall be a
Village Board member, appointed by the Chairperson of the Board. This
individual maintains one vote. The Village Board representative shall be
appointed annually at the December reorganizational meeting. The six couples
shall be split equally between rural and village, with each couple maintaining
one vote.
      (2)   Membership on the Committee by the couples shall be perpetual. When
a couple resigns for any reason, the balance of the Committee shall nominate
other couples eligible to assume the position, preferably at least two couples
or more, and then vote to decide on the replacement couple. This shall be done
at the regular meeting after the resignation. In the event of resignation from
the Village Board by the Village Board representative, the Chairperson shall
appoint a new representative at the next Village Board meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
   (B)   Management. The municipality owns and manages the Memorial Hall
through the Memorial Hall Committee as provided in an agreement entered into
between the governing body and the Memorial Hall Committee. A copy of the
agreement shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-953
§ 32.06 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established, pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-2101.01,
a Community Development Agency for the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board and Village Board of Trustees of the
village are hereby designated to be the Community Development Agency for the
village.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board of the Village shall be the Chairperson
of the Community Development Agency; the Vice Chairperson of the Village Board
of Trustees shall be the Vice Chairperson; and the Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall be the secretary of the Community Development Agency.
   (D)   The Community Development Agency shall have the power and authority to
exercise those powers and authority granted to a community redevelopment
authority under the Community Development Law, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2101
et seq. The Community Development Agency shall also have the power and
authority to do all community development activities and to do all things
necessary to cooperate with the federal government in all matters relating to
community development program activities as a grantee, or as an agent or
otherwise, under the provisions of the Federal Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, being Pub. L. No. 93-383, § 808, 88 Sat. 633, 728, as
amended through the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1981, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq. The Community Development Agency may levy taxes for
the exercise of such jurisdiction and authority and may issue general
obligation bonds, general obligation notes, revenue bonds and revenue notes
including those general obligation and revenue refunding bonds and notes for
the purposes set forth in the Community Development Law and under the powers
granted to any community redevelopment authority described therein.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 5-5-2015)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Definition
   
33.02   General provisions
   
33.03   Notice
   
33.04   Registered voters; qualifications
   
33.05   Special elections
   
33.06   Election of officers; certification
   
33.07   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
33.08   Filing fee
   
33.09   Caucus candidates
   
33.10   Certificate of nomination or election
   
33.11   Recall procedure
§ 33.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTION ACT. The Election Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-101 et seq.
§ 33.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of officers
shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the village shall be held as provided
in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-404)
§ 33.03 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk, pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-802, shall serve as the
notice requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with
the statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.04 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-110
§ 33.05 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-3444, any issue to be
submitted to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall
be certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk on or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special
election may be held by mail as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-952 through
32-959. Any other special election shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by
September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   (a)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
the certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible
for all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered
voters, except that the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of such
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and
issue absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The
ballots, including absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same
time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
         (b)   Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
   (C)   (1)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the
first Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless
otherwise specifically provided.
      (2)   No special election shall be held under the Election Act in April,
May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year unless it is
held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
      (3)   No special election shall be held under the Election Act in
September of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a
property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Prior Code, § 1-706) (Ord. 1-706, passed 3-2-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-405 and 32-559
§ 33.06 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   All municipal elections involving the election of officers shall be held in
accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the statewide general
election. No later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the governing body
shall certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the
County Clerk, the name of the municipality, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by
election and length of remaining term and the number of votes to be cast by a
registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-702) (Ord. 1-702, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-202, 32-401, 32-404, 32-532
and 32-556
§ 33.07 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination
and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than
60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-557)
§ 33.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the Village Clerk-Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
village office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the
General Fund of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the
proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the
hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-608)
§ 33.09 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-601.01)
   (B)   The chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk-Treasurer in writing of the candidates so nominated,
not later than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall
then notify the persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to
take place not later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated
shall have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten
days after the holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer a written statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays
the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-601.03)
§ 33.10 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION OR ELECTION.
   (A)   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk or Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall on or before the sixth Monday after the election, prepare, sign and
deliver a certificate of nomination or a certificate of election to each person
the Canvassing Board has declared to have received the highest vote for each
municipal office. No person shall be issued a certificate of nomination as a
candidate of a political party unless such person has received a number of
votes at least equal to 5% of the total ballots cast at the primary election by
registered voters affiliated with that political party in the district which
the office for which he or she is a candidate serves.
   (B)   A certificate of election prepared by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall be in the form as nearly as possible prescribed in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-
1033 and shall be signed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, under the
seal of the municipality, and countersigned by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-710) (Ord. 1-710, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-558 and 32-1033
§ 33.11 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. Rev.
Stat. §§ 32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the Trustee by any method specified
in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made with
reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 25-
505.01, by leaving a copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual place of
residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last known
address. If the Trustee chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in
concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after
the Trustee receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall
prepare the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the
defense statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the
petition papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that
the petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. Rev.
Stat. §§ 32-629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a
registered voter and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the
office in question.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 32-1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee may be by any method specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the
Trustee’s usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to
the Trustee’s last known address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-405 and that can be certified to the
election commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election,
except that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days
after such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §
32-562. If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall
election is held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board
notifies the election commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-567 through 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing clerk that he
or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-1309)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.03   Warrants
   
34.04   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.05   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
34.06   Special assessment fund
   
34.07   Sinking funds
   
34.08   Deposit of funds
   
34.09   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
34.10   Investment of funds
   
34.11   Bond issues
   
34.12   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
Annual Budget
   
34.25   Fiscal year
   
34.26   Budget procedures
   
34.27   Expenditures; general
   
34.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.29   Proposed budget hearing
   
34.30   Adopted budget statement; filing
   
34.31   Appropriation bill
   
34.32   General Fund
   
34.33   Transfer of funds
   
34.34   Budget revision
Tax Levies
   
34.45   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
34.46   Property tax levy; authority to set
   
34.47   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
      ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of such annual report.
      FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-2804 for a proprietary function if
different than the municipal fiscal year.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for such preceding fiscal
year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. Such audit shall be completed and the annual audit
report made by such accountant shall be submitted within six months after the
close of the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted
by a written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 84-304 and owns or operates any type of public utility or
other enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of
Trustees shall have that phase of the village’s affairs reported separately
from the other functions of the village. The result of such audit shall appear
separately in the annual audit report made by the accountant to the village,
and the audit shall be on a cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the
Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, such report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
      (3)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk-Treasurer, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment
or explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer and shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public
inspection.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer, not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing
the village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed
fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 1-811) (Ord. 1-811, passed 3-2-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-606 and 19-2902 through 19-
2905
§ 34.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-412.01 for a contract with
a public power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric
distribution, transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when
the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-412.01, before the Board of
Trustees makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is: $30,000 or less; $60,000 or less and the village electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
$90,000 or less and the village electric utility has gross annual revenue from
retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or $120,000 or less and the village
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths’ vote of
the Board of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 81-145
through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-568.02)
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county, a
joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
federal general services administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For the purpose of this division (I),
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.03 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-711)
§ 34.04 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-903, the claimant
shall file such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the claimant or his or her agent
or attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-715)
§ 34.05 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have authority to collect the special assessments
which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-703
§ 34.06 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Clerk-Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for
no other purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended
for any such improvement.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-710)
§ 34.07 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided, that in the event of a donation of real
estate, the Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real
estate donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions
of Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, being
Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Clerk-Treasurer, by donation or by
tax levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Clerk-Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of
Trustees, in the manner provided in §
34.10. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking
fund or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-702
§ 34.08 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Clerk-Treasurer.
Such deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for such municipal
funds.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment
of all such deposits and accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve such
bond or giving of security. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall not be liable for
any loss of any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository
so designated and approved.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by such corporation,
and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or other
security shall be required.
   (D)   Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions. Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in
qualifying mutual financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-819) (Ord. 1-819, passed 7-2-2002; Ord. 1-819, passed 3-2-
2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-607 and 77-2362
§ 34.09 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that such certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the municipality, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 16-714 through 16-716. Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-
2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial institutions. Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual financial
institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-825) (Ord. 1-826, passed 7-2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-720
§ 34.10 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Clerk-Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess
of the amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and
improvements, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Clerk-Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or
registered warrants of the village, bonds and debentures issued either singly
or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit
banks or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Clerk-Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds,
or the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act and the State
Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-2341)
Statutory reference:
   State Capital Expansion Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-1269 et seq.
   State Funds Investment Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-1237 et seq.
§ 34.11 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 10-101 through 10-143
§ 34.12 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, being Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 45-601 et seq.,
within or without this state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed
by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, DEBT shall include all
delinquent fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In
the case of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a
criminal or traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt.
      (2)   The collection fee shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is
greater. The collection fee shall be paid by the person who owes the debt
directly to the person or agency providing the collection service.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 45-623)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-701)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2801 et seq.
§ 34.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.27 EXPENDITURES; GENERAL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or draw any
order or warrant on the Village Clerk-Treasurer for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
34.04, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-708)
§ 34.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to § 35.29. A proposed budget statement shall contain the
following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-505)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal Proprietary Function Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-2801 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-504 and 13-505
§ 34.29 PROPOSED BUDGET HEARING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act or
Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors,
he or she shall immediately notify the Board of such errors. The Board shall
correct any such error as provided in §
34.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-507)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-501 et seq.
§ 34.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-518 through 13-522, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this division
(B), the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
34.28.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-509 for the
current year in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may
designate one of its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of
the Board by this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-508)
§ 34.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Board
may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-706)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-501 et seq.
§ 34.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the village has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 34.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year or biennial period it becomes
apparent to the governing body that, due to unforeseen emergencies, there is
temporarily insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of
the adopted budget of expenditures for that fund, the governing body may by a
majority vote, unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from
other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year or biennial period shall be made
in excess of the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as
authorized in §
34.34 or by state law.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any officer or officers of the governing body to
obligate funds contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-814) (Ord. 1-814, passed 6-6-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-510
§ 34.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-518 through
13-522, such that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof
will be insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or
there is a need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. Rev.
Stat. §§ 13-518 through 13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board
of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under § 35.29, the
Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall correct an adopted budget which
contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not affect
the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount required from
property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a correction.
After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of the corrected
budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board of
Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Board of
Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-511)
Statutory reference:
   State Budget Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-501 et seq.
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.45 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by
law, cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the
village requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided.
   (B)   (1)   The County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists
to be collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of county
taxes in the county where the village is situated. In all sales for any
delinquent taxes for municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes
due from the same person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for
all the delinquent taxes.
      (2)   Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or
the provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in
all respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-702)
§ 34.46 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   (1)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the
property tax request for the current year for the purpose of the levy set by
the County Board of Equalization in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-1601 unless the Board
of Trustees passes by a majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax
request at a different amount.
      (2)   Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the municipality at least
five days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (2)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation; and
      (3)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
   (C)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this section shall be
certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year for
which the tax request is to apply.
   (D)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 77-1606.
(Prior Code, § 1-808) (Ord. 1-808, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-1632
§ 34.47 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the village shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the village and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or
parts thereof, or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the vehicle title and registration
system maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act when reporting information to the vehicle title and
registration system; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the road fund of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-137
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-301
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utility bills
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Unauthorized reconnections prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   Meter readings will be taken on the twenty-fifth day of each month,
and payments will be due by the tenth of the following month.
   (B)   Bills not paid by the twentieth day of the month in which they become
due shall become subject to a late fee, and bills not paid by the thirtieth day
of the month in which they become due shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon
being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the municipality may
discontinue the appropriate service pursuant to the provisions of §
50.02. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
in full of the delinquent charges and upon further payment of a reconnection
fee. The amount of the late fee and of the reconnection fee shall be set by the
governing body and placed on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer. The municipality may also take any action authorized by law to
effect collection of the delinquent charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 2012-7, passed 7-10-2012)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 70-1602)
   (B)   No utility owned and operated by the village furnishing water, natural
gas or electricity at retail in the village shall discontinue service to any
domestic subscriber for nonpayment of any past due account unless the utility
first gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed
to be terminated at least seven days prior to termination. As to any subscriber
who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the
Department of Health and Human Services, the notice shall be by certified mail,
and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the Department.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 70-1603)
   (C)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by a
utility owned and operated by the village, the domestic subscriber, upon
request, shall be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. A utility
owned and operated by the village shall not be subject to Neb. Rev. Stat. §§
70-1608 through 70-1614, but the Board of Trustees shall establish a procedure
to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic
subscriber. The procedure shall be in writing and a copy of such procedure
shall be furnished upon the request of any domestic subscriber. The Board of
Trustees shall notify the domestic subscriber of the time, place and date
scheduled for such conference.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 70-1604)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 70-1607)
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 70-1615)
§ 50.03 UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTIONS PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   When water service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat.
§§ 70-1601 through 70-1615, or §
50.02, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Proof of existence of any reconnection as provided in this section
shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession
of the premises where such reconnection is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-303) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.04 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes or rent assessed by the Board of Trustees shall
be a lien upon the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same is used
or supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates shall be paid and collected and
such lien enforced in such manner as the Board of Trustees shall by ordinance
direct and provide.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-538)
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the Board of Trustees shall be a lien
upon the premises or real estate for which such water is used or supplied. Such
lien shall be enforced in such manner as the Board or Trustees provides by
ordinance.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-925.01)
   (C)   If the service charge established by the Board of Trustees for the use
of any village sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due,
such sum may be recovered by the village in a civil action or it may be
certified to the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served and
collected or returned in the same manner as other village taxes are certified,
assessed, collected and returned.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the Board of Trustees otherwise provides, on June 1 of each
year, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall report to the Board a list of all
unpaid accounts due for utilities service together with a description of the
premises served. If the Board approves the report, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
certify the report to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 3-601) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Collection and disposal
   
51.03   Hazardous items and items requiring special handling or disposal
   
51.04   Additional regulations
   
51.05   Nuisance; abatement
   
51.06   Village responsibility
   
51.07   Area of service
   
51.08   Mandatory pickup
   
51.09   Open burning banned
   
51.10   Solid waste removal
   
51.11   Disposal of construction waste
   
51.12   Garbage receptacles
   
51.13   Wet garbage
   
51.14   Rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by 128
Neb. Admin. Code §§ 001 et seq. (rules and regulations governing hazardous
waste management in the state), which for purposes or general definition is a
solid waste which, because of quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE JURISDICTION AREA. All incorporated areas of the
municipality.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and include garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, industrial wastes and other such wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery or litter of any kind that will be a detriment
to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial and mining operations, and from
community activities.
   VILLAGE or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Phillips, Nebraska.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-201) (Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-2012, 13-2014, 13-2016.01, 13-
2020, 13-2023, 13-2026 and 81-1502
§ 51.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   The municipality shall provide or contract for the disposal of nonhazardous
solid waste from residential, commercial, institutional and governmental
premises within its solid waste jurisdiction area. Such wastes shall be
disposed of on a regularly scheduled basis and shall be disposed of only in a
licensed landfill facility approved by the governing body and which meets all
state and federal criteria. The governing body shall approve and is authorized
to contract with any such licensed landfill facility for these purposes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-2020) (Prior Code, § 4-202)
§ 51.03 HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR DISPOSAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAND DISPOSAL. Includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      NONRECYCLABLE TIRE. A press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic shaped tire
or a foam pneumatic tire.
      WASTE TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
      YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall put out any of the following items to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal:
         (a)   Yard waste from April 1 through November 30 of each year, unless
such yard waste has been separated from its source and is put out for separate
collection and delivery to the landfill for the purpose of soil conditioning or
composting under the conditions otherwise specified;
         (b)   Lead-acid batteries;
         (c)   Waste oil;
         (d)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are nonrecyclable.
Tires are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 13-2039;
         (e)   Discarded household appliances; and
         (f)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the state Environmental Protection
Act.
      (2)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the
State Integrated Solid Waste Management Act or any amendments thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) (Ord. 4-203, passed 3-2-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-2013.02, 13-2016.01 and 13-
2039
   State Environmental Protection Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 81-1501 to 81-
1532
   State Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-2001
et seq.
§ 51.04 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may, from time to time, make and adopt by ordinance such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operation and control of
the solid waste collection and disposal system and the regulation of solid
waste with the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem necessary
to promote the efficient operation and management of the system and to protect
the environment and the health, safety and welfare of all persons within the
municipal solid waste jurisdiction area.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-2020, 13-2023 and 13-2026
§ 51.05 NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful and declared to be a nuisance for any person to keep
in, on or about any dwelling, building or premises, or any other place within
the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area, decayed vegetable or animal
substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the
public health or offensive to the residents of the municipality, unless the
same is kept in approved receptacles as nearly airtight as may be practical. It
shall be unlawful and declared to be a nuisance to throw or sweep into the
streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces
of glass, garbage, refuse or rubbish of any kind. No person shall permit
garbage, refuse or rubbish to collect, and all persons shall remove the same
within 24 hours after being notified to do so by the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-205) Penalty, see §
51.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 13-2020, 13-2023, 13-2026 and 18-
1720
§ 51.06 VILLAGE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The village shall operate the municipal solid waste disposal system and may
contract for the day-to-day operation of the same with a qualified person, firm
or corporation in the collection and disposal of solid waste. The village may
also own and operate or may contract with some entity for the disposal of solid
wastes in a landfill licenses by the State Department of Environmental Quality.
The Village Board or its authorized representative shall have the direct
management and control of the solid waste collection and disposal, and the
Board of Trustees shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management thereof.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.07 AREA OF SERVICE.
   The village shall furnish solid waste pickup and disposal services to all
persons within the corporate limits, including both residential customers and
commercial customers. The village may also furnish solid waste pickup and
disposal service to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits as, and when, according to law, the Village Board may determine to do
so.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.08 MANDATORY PICKUP.
   All customers of the village water distribution system, both residential and
commercial, shall become customers of the village solid waste disposal system
and shall be assessed a monthly fee for collection services as provided by the
village or its authorized representative or independent contractor.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.09 OPEN BURNING BANNED.
   Open burning of solid waste is prohibited, except that the Board of Trustees
may establish controlled burning dates two times a year or at such other times
as may be determined by the Board.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of every owner and every person, firm or corporation in
possession or control of any dwelling, apartment house, rooming house, mobile
home court, school, club, restaurant or eating place, or in possession, in
charge of or in control of any shop, place of business, professional office or
manufacturing establishment where garbage, refuse or rubbish material is
created or accumulated, to cause to be removed from the premises where
accumulated such garbage, refuse, rubbish or other waste material by providing
for its collection by the village or its independent contractor. The collection
and disposal of junk, tree limbs, shrubbery clippings and grass clippings shall
be negotiated by the Board of Trustees or its authorized representative and the
owner or possessor of the premises.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.11 DISPOSAL OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE.
   All accumulation of waste occasioned by the construction, alteration,
remodeling, rebuilding and repairing of buildings or structures shall be
removed and disposed of by the owner or contractor at no expense to the
village, and such waste shall not be considered as garbage, rubbish or refuse.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.12 GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Residential. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any
residential premises where meals are served or where garbage, refuse or rubbish
is created or accumulated to provide and keep on the premises suitable and
sufficient watertight, rodent-proof metal or plastic receptacles equipped with
a tight-fitting lid and handles or a bail for easy handling. Such receptacles
shall be a tote container or any other container approved by the Village Board
of its authorized representative. No 55-gallon barrels shall be permitted;
provided, that in multi-family residential areas, detachable containers may be
used upon approval of the Village Board or its authorized representative.
    (B)   Nonresidential.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any
nonresidential premises where meals are served or where garbage, refuse or
rubbish is created or accumulated to provide on such premises suitable and
sufficient watertight, rodent-proof and insect-proof metal or plastic
receptacles, equipped with a tight-fitting lid and handles or a bail for easy
handling; provided, that other receptacles may be used in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   Fiber or pressed board receptacles may be used as garbage
containers for restaurants, cafés and other similar businesses if such
receptacles are protected from the elements and covered so that the contents
will not blow away.
         (b)   Detachable containers may be used upon approval of the Village
Board or its authorized representative.
      (2)   No 55-gallon barrels shall be permitted in nonresidential areas.
   (C)   Storage. All receptacles used for the collection of garbage, refuse
and rubbish shall be stored on the private premises of the lot owner or
occupant, and in no event shall receptacles be stored in the alleys, easements
or other village rights-of-way. Said receptacles shall be placed by the owner
or occupant of any such residential premises at the curb adjacent to the
premises prior to the time of collection to facilitate the collection thereof.
   (D)   Repair or replacement. If garbage cans or receptacles are in a state
of disrepair or do not meet the requirements of this section, it shall be the
duty of the Village Board or its authorized representative to leave notice with
the owner thereof directing such repair or replacement as may be necessary.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.13 WET GARBAGE.
   All wet garbage in the residential districts shall be put in plastic bags or
containers before placing the same in garbage cans or receptacles.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.14 RATES.
   The rates for monthly collection of residential and nonresidential solid
waste shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Trustees or by contract
with an independent contractor.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-2006)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application
   
52.04   Service to nonresidents
   
52.05   Water contract
   
52.06   Installation
   
52.07   Backflow prevention devices
   
52.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.09   Single premises
   
52.10   Restricted use
   
52.11   Fire hydrants
   
52.12   Pollution
   
52.13   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.14   Water service contracts
   
52.15   Inspection
   
52.16   Destruction of property
   
52.17   Wells and other facilities
   
52.18   Rates; fees; collections
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management
and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Water Fund
and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The governing
body shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary
and efficient management of the Water Department. The governing body shall set
the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a
copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer for public
inspection during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, who may require any applicant to
make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the governing body and
placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Water may not be
supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-537
§ 52.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-2701
§ 52.05 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the
governing body or its designated representative may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made except by order of the governing body or its designated
representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
§ 52.06 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth
must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall
leave an excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time
without a barricade, and during the night, warning lights.
      (2)   After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks
shall be restored to good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or
sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the
governing body or its designated representative shall have the duty to finish
or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the
consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require an inspection by the
governing body or its designated representative. The inspection shall be made
when connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. It
is the customer’s responsibility to notify the governing body or its designated
representative at the time the work is ready for inspection.
      (3)   All installations shall be done strictly in accordance with the
rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (B)   Expense.
      (1)   The expense of bringing water service from the main to the place of
disbursement shall be paid by the consumer. The consumer shall pay the
municipality a tap fee in the amount established by ordinance and on file in
the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The consumer shall be required to pay the expense of procuring the
services of a plumber and shall pay the expense of furnishing and installing
pipe, trenching and the necessary labor to bring water service from the main to
the place of disbursement.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-537 and 17-542
§ 52.07 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   A cross-connection control officer shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees to oversee the enforcement of this section. Said officer shall be
responsible for reviewing the surveys submitted by the customers of the
Municipal Water Department and determining if a backflow prevention device is
required to comply with 179 Neb. Admin. Code, Ch. 2 (regulations governing
public water supply systems).
   (B)   All customers of the Municipal Water Department shall be required to
report to the cross-connection control officer any potential cross-connections
which may be on their premises. This report shall be made at least every five
years.
   (C)   (1)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by
the cross-connection control officer to install and maintain a properly located
backflow prevention device at the customer’s expense appropriate to the
potential hazard as set forth in 179 Neb. Admin. Code, Ch. 2 and approved by
the cross-connection control officer.
      (2)   The customer shall make application to the cross-connection control
officer to install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by
the municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and
address of the applicant, the type of backflow prevention device to be
installed, including make and model number, and the location of the proposed
installation.
      (3)   The cross-connection control officer shall approve or disapprove
the application based on whether such installation will protect the municipal
water distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage hazards.
      (4)   When a testable backflow prevention device shall be required, the
customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time annually that
the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State Health and Human
Services System Grade VI certified water operator. Such certification shall be
made on a form available at the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
      (5)   Any decision of the cross-connection control officer may be
appealed to the Board of Trustees, which decision shall be final.
   (D)   Any customer refusing to report on possible cross-connections on his
or her premises, refusing to install the necessary backflow prevention device
or failing to otherwise comply with the provisions of this section may have his
or her water service disconnected. Any customer who has had his or her service
disconnected for violation of this section shall be subject to a $50 reconnect
fee to have the service reinstated after supplying proof that a potential
cross-connection has been eliminated or properly protected.
(Ord. 3-120, passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all
supply pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his
or her own expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the
stop box to the place of dispersal.
   (B)   When leaks occur in service pipes, the governing body or its
designated representative shall shut off water service until the leak is
repaired at the expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the governing
body or its designated representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-537
§ 52.09 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-537
§ 52.10 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body may order a reduction in the use of water or shut off the
water on any premises in the event of a water shortage due to fire or other
good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall not be liable for any damages
caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or
any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due
to circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-537
§ 52.11 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or members
of the Water Department to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw
water from the same, or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.12 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-526
§ 52.13 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-537
§ 52.14 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at said premises. If the consumer should fail to
give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on said
premises until the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-537
§ 52.15 INSPECTION.
   The governing body or its designated representative shall have free access,
at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building to, or in
which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures and
other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-537
§ 52.16 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.17 WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill, install or
operate any of the following facilities within the corporate limits of the
municipality without first having obtained a permit from the governing body:
      (1)   Potable water well;
      (2)   Any other well;
      (3)   Sewage lagoon;
      (4)   Absorption or disposal field for water;
      (5)   Cesspool;
      (6)   Dumping grounds;
      (7)   Feedlot;
      (8)   Livestock;
      (9)   Livestock corral;
      (10)   Chemical product storage facility;
      (11)   Petroleum product storage facility;
      (12)   Pit toilet;
      (13)   Sanitary landfill;
      (14)   Septic tank;
      (15)   Sewage treatment plant; and/or
      (16)   Sewage wet well.
   (B)   In order to obtain a permit, the owner of the property on which the
proposed facility is to be located shall make application on the form provided
by the governing body or its designated representative. The application shall
be presented to the governing body at any regular meeting or special meeting.
After reviewing the application, the governing body shall approve or deny the
permit.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall the governing body approve any permit to
drill or operate any of the following facilities within the indicated number of
feet from the municipal water wells:
Absorption or disposal field for water                           500 feet
All other wells not listed herein                                1,000 feet
Cesspool                                                         500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage facility                   500 feet
Dump                                                             500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                                        500 feet
Irrigation or industrial well (unless special permit is obtained 1,000 feet
from the State Department of Water Resources)
Pasture or corral                                                500 feet
Pit toilet                                                       500 feet
Potable water well                                               1,000 feet
Sanitary landfill                                                500 feet
Septic tank                                                      500 feet
Sewage lagoon                                                    1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant                                           500 feet
Sewage wet well                                                  500 feet
Sewer connection                                                 100 feet
Sewer line                                                       50 feet
Sewer manhole                                                    100 feet
 
   (D)   Any nonconforming uses existing on the effective date of this section
are exempted.
   (E)   If any of the facilities described in this section are drilled,
installed or operated without first having obtained a permit from the governing
body or within the designated number of feet from the municipal water supply,
such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the governing body shall abate
such facility as a public nuisance, pursuant to §
90.16.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.18 RATES; FEES; COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Fees and collections. The governing body has the power and authority
to fix the rates to be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from
the Water Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at
the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the municipality on
the account of the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
   (B)   Minimum rates. All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum
rate provided by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written
order, direct the personnel to shut off the water at the stop box, in which
case he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water
is turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 3-19-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-540 and 17-542
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Operation and funding
   
53.003   Application for permit
   
53.004   Sewer contract
   
53.005   Service contracts
   
53.006   Classification
   
53.007   Mandatory hook-up
   
53.008   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
Public Sewers Required
   
53.020   Unlawful deposit of wastes
   
53.021   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
53.022   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
53.035   When applicable
   
53.036   Maintenance
   
53.037   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.050   Permit required; bond; expense; standards
   
53.051   Expense
   
53.052   Single premises
   
53.053   Use of existing sewers
   
53.054   Construction standards
   
53.055   Inspections
   
53.056   Excavations
Sewer Use
   
53.070   Municipality not responsible for damage; interruption of service
   
53.071   Service connections and installation procedure
   
53.072   Installation expense
   
53.073   Repairs and maintenance
   
53.074   Sewer service charges
   
53.075   Bills and accounting
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
53.090   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling water and process
water
   
53.091   Harmful and obstructive substances
   
53.092   Specific prohibitions as determined by Inspector
Enforcement
   
53.105   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
53.106   Discontinuance of service
   
53.107   Compliance with chapter; inspections generally
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal discharge from
soil, waste or other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house
and conveys it to the building or house sewer, beginning five feet outside the
inner face of the building or house wall.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the public
main sewer or other place of disposal.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food
and produce.
   INSPECTOR. Any person duly authorized by the Chairperson and Board of
Trustees to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer system.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. Any pipe through which foul air is removed from a
room or fixture.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Receptacles intended to receive and discharge water
liquid or water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are
connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Shredding to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers
with no particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by the municipality.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SOIL PIPE. Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface drainage but excludes
sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
immersion in water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   VENT PIPE. Any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage
system and to prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. Any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except
water closets, and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe or waste
stack.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.002 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management and maintenance
of the municipal sewer system, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Sewer Maintenance
Fund. The Board of Trustees may adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary
and efficient management of the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-574 and 17-925.01
§ 53.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   To connect with the sewer system, the owner or occupant of the
premises shall make an application therefor to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer.
Sewer service shall not be supplied to any person outside the corporate limits
without special permission from the governing body; provided, that the entire
cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be paid by such consumers.
Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to provide sewer
service to nonresidents.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for sewer service shall be filed with the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer upon a form to be supplied by the municipality. The application
shall state the name of the applicant and the premises to serve. All
applications filed after April 30, 1982 shall be accompanied by a connection
charge, payable to the village, in an amount set by the governing body and on
file with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The owner of the premises served and
the occupant thereof shall be jointly and severally liable for the sewer
service provided to said premises.
      (2)   The applicant shall also pay a deposit in the amount set by the
governing body and on file with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Upon
disconnection of the sewer service, any balance of such deposit shall be
returned to the applicant without interest.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   See Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-508
§ 53.004 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality shall furnish sewer services to persons within its
corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a commercial
main is now or may hereafter be laid. The rules, regulations and sewer rental
rates shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer
service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer
now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the
application on the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present
customers thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound. The municipality
may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside
the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to law, the
governing body may see fit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-901, 17-902 and 18-503
§ 53.005 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application. If any
customer shall move from the premises where service is furnished, or if said
premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform
the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer who shall cause the sewer service to be shut off
from said premises. If the customer should fail to give notice, he or she shall
be charged for that period of time until the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer is
otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-901, 17-902 and 18-503
§ 53.006 CLASSIFICATION.
   For the purpose of rental fees, the governing body may classify the
customers of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such
classifications are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any
consumer or group of consumers.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-925.02) (Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 53.007 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the municipality and
abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may
in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the village, is
hereby required, at his or her own expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer within two years after date of official notice to do so, or if
hereafter erected, at the time of its construction; provided, that said public
sewer is within 150 feet of the property line. In the event that any property
owner shall neglect, fail or refuse, within a period of ten days after further
notice has been given to him or her to do so by registered mail or by
publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, to
make such connection, the governing body shall have the power to cause the same
to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property and to collect the
assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of other special
taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 53.008 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the municipal sewer system. Any person violating
this provision shall be prosecuted for malicious destruction of property.
(Prior Code, § 3-232) Penalty, see §
53.999
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.020 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any human
or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste which ordinarily
would be regarded as sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-209) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any sanitary
sewage, industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-210) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-211) Penalty, see §
53.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 53.035 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where the public sanitary or combined sewer is not available, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with all requirements of the State Board of Health.
   (B)   At such times as a public sewer becomes available, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned. Within 30 days of making connection to the public sewer, all such
private sewage disposal facilities shall be opened, shall have all sewage
removed and shall be broken and completely filled with earth, sand, gravel,
concrete or other material approved by the Inspector; provided, that where any
such private sewage disposal facility is shown to be completely inaccessible,
upon application, the Chairperson and Board of Trustees may except such
facility from the requirements of opening, sewage removal and breaking and
filling.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.036 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 53.037 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Department of
Health.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 53.050 PERMIT REQUIRED; BOND; EXPENSE; STANDARDS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances without
first obtaining a written permit from the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. Before a
permit may be issued for excavating for plumbing in any public street, way or
alley, the person applying for such permit shall have executed unto the village
and deposited with the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer a surety bond in the sum set
by the governing body and on file in the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office,
conditioned that he or she will perform faithfully all work with due care and
skill, and in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations established under
the authority of any ordinances of the village pertaining to plumbing. This
bond shall state and indemnify and save harmless the village and the owner of
the premises against all damages, costs, expenses, outlays and claims of every
nature and kind arising out of unskillfulness or negligence on his or her part
in connection with plumbing or excavating for plumbing as prescribed in this
chapter. Such bond shall remain in force and must be executed for a period of
two years, except that on such expiration it shall remain in force as to all
penalties, claims and demands that may have accrued thereunder prior to such
expiration.
   (B)   The municipality shall install and maintain the main and Ys for each
user connection. The customer shall install and maintain at his or her expense
that portion of the service from the Y on the main to his or her premises. The
size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the approval of the
Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches.
Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor.
(Prior Code, § 3-216) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection to the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner of the premises. The owner, or the
person installing the building sewer for said owner, shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by said installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 53.052 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed only
by special permission granted by the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
§ 53.053 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers or portions thereof may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found on examination and test by said Inspector to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 53.054 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by the village, and all installations
shall be subject to examination and test by the Inspector.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the Y branch designated for that property if such branch is available
at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated Y branch in
the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
§ 53.055 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Inspector when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or his or her
representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
§ 53.056 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be removed
and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation
made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and
during the night, reflectors. After the house sewer is laid, the public ways
and property shall be restored to good condition. If the excavation in the
public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a period of 72 hours or
more, the Street Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or correct the
work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner, occupant or
lessee of the property.
(Prior Code, § 3-222) Penalty, see §
53.999
SEWER USE
§ 53.070 MUNICIPALITY NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGE; INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The municipality shall in no event be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the failure of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs, and no person shall be entitled to
damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
   (B)   The municipality shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate
interruption of service and, when such interruption occurs, will endeavor to
reestablish service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever the service is
interrupted for the purpose of working on the collection system or the
treatment equipment, all consumers affected by such interruption will be
notified in advance whenever it is possible to do so.
(Prior Code, § 3-223) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.071 SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Material standards. For the purpose of this section, the following
material standards apply.
      (1)   Clay. All clay pipes shall conform to ASTM standard specifications
for clay sewer pipes.
      (2)   Poly vinyl chloride (PVC). All PVC gravity sewer pipe shall conform
to the requirements of the latest revision of ASTM Specifications D 3033 “Type
PSP Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) Sewer Pipe” and fitting of the ASTM
Specifications D 3034 “Type PSM Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) Sewer Pipe and
Fittings.” PVC pipe minimum wall thickness shall be SDR 35.
      (3)   Cast iron soil pipe joints. Said joints shall be caulked with hemp
or jute and sealed with molten lead, or a plastic collar shall be used.
      (4)   Elastomeric gasket joints. The critical sealing dimensions of the
bell, spigot and gasket shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s standard
dimensions and tolerances. The elastomerics compound shall comply in all
respects with the physical requirements specified in ASTM D1869, C391 or C443.
The gasket shall provide an adequate compressive force against the sealing
surfaces of the bell and spigot so as to effect a positive seal under all
combinations of the joint tolerances. The gasket shall be the only element
depended upon to make the joint flexible and watertight.
      (5)   Solvent cement joints. The dimensions of the socket for the
cemented joint shall conform to ASTM standards. The solvent cement shall meet
the requirements of ASTM D2564. The assembly shall be in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommended procedure or with ASTM Recommended Practice D2855.
   (B)   Joining systems.
      (1)   General. The joint shall provide a permanent seal against
exfiltration and infiltration.
      (2)   Clay tile. Clay tile bell connections shall be sealed with acid and
alkaline resistant material.
      (3)   Cast iron soil pipe joints. Said joint shall be caulked with hemp
or jute and sealed with molten lead, or a plastic collar shall be used.
      (4)   Elastomeric gasket joints. The critical sealing dimensions of the
bell, spigot and gasket shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s standard
dimensions and tolerances. The elastomerics compound shall comply in all
respects with the physical requirements specified in ASTM D1869, C391 or C443.
The gasket shall provide an adequate compressive force against the sealing
surfaces of the bell and spigot so as to effect a positive seal under all
combinations of the joint tolerances. The gasket shall be the only element
depended upon to make the joint flexible and watertight.
      (5)   Solvent cement joint. The dimensions of the socket for the cemented
joint shall conform to ASTM standards. The solvent cement shall meet the
requirements of ASTM D2564. The assembly shall be in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommended procedure or with ASTM Recommended Practice D2855.
   (C)   Grade. All sewers shall have a fall of at least one-eighth inch to
each linear foot unless otherwise authorized by the Inspector.
   (D)   Trenching and backfilling. All excavations shall be open trench work
unless authorized by the Inspector. The base of the trench shall be formed to
prevent settlement of pipes. Bell holes shall be cut for all pipe to provide
ample space for pouring of joints. Backfilling on municipal rights-of-way shall
be laced in layers and solidly tamped or packed up to two feet above the pipe.
Backfilling shall not be done until final inspection by the Inspector.
   (E)   Inspection and supervision. The Sewer Inspector shall inspect all
house drains, sewer connections and excavations during installation.
   (F)   Installation. Only licensed master plumbers are allowed to repair,
replace or connect to the sewer system.
   (G)   Specification. All drains below grade shall be constructed of clay,
cast iron soil pipe, PVC or A.B.S. All types of sewer pipe service connections
authorized by ordinance shall be at least four inches in diameter to provide
required capacity where specified.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)
§ 53.072 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon application for sewer service, shall pay to the Municipal
Clerk-Treasurer a tap fee in the amount set by the governing body and on file
in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, which shall compensate the
municipality for the expense of processing the application and inspection. The
customer shall then be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials
required as well as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other
costs of installation. A fixed fee for materials and installation may be set by
ordinance of the Board of Trustees. All expenses, including cost of materials
and labor, for street, alley or sidewalk repair shall be paid by the customer.
No pavement upon a street or alley shall be cut for purposes of sewer
installation or repair except with prior approval of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-225) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.073 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials specified for
installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1748
§ 53.074 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The governing body shall establish a sewer service charge for the use of and
for the service supplied by the municipal sanitary sewer system. The rates
shall be on file in the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 53.075 BILLS AND ACCOUNTING.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer to render bills
for sewer service and all other charges in connection therewith and to collect
all money due therefrom. All revenues and money derived from the operation of
the sewer system shall be paid to and held by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer
separate and apart from all other funds and money incident to the operation of
said system, as may be delivered to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer, and shall be
deposited in a separate fund designated as the Village Sewerage System Revenue
Fund Account. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall administer said fund in every
respect in a manner provided by state statutes and all other laws pertaining
thereto. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper records, books and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewer
system. At regular annual intervals, the Village Board shall cause to be made
an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts
and disbursements of the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 53.090 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water into any
sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-227) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.091 HARMFUL AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any public sewer
harmful waters or wastes, whether liquid, solid or gas, capable of causing
obstruction of the flow in sewers, damage or hazard to structures, equipment or
any personnel of the sewage works, or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 3-228) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.092 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY INSPECTOR.
   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having harmful
or objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Inspector, who may prescribe limits on the strength and character of these
waters or wastes.
(Prior Code, § 3-229)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.105 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Inspector, and other duly authorized employees of the Village Board of
Trustees, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 53.106 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Sewer service may be discontinued by the municipality for any violation of
any rule, regulation or condition of service, and especially for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures to
be serviced by the sanitary sewer system;
   (B)   Nonpayment of bills; or
   (C)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures, or failure to keep
same in suitable state of repair.
(Prior Code, § 3-231)
§ 53.107 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   Premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all reasonable hours be
subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-233)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter, with
the exception of §
53.091, shall be served by the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently stop all violations.
   (B)   Any violation of the rules and regulations after written notice to
cease and desist shall be liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned to the municipality by reason of such violation and shall be
prosecuted in accordance with the penal provisions of §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   Crosswalks
   
70.04   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.05   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
Speed Limits
   
70.20   Basic rule
   
70.21   Maximum limits
   
70.22   Alternative maximum limits
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
70.35   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.36   Traffic citations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 55-133.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,118.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the school
crossing zone and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The Board shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-681)
§ 70.03 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers or lines upon the streets, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street and at such other places as it may deem necessary.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-103)
§ 70.04 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic control devices
upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to
carry out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide traffic.
All such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform
with the Manual.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,121)
§ 70.05 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 70.20 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
70.20, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-6,187,
60-6,188, 60-6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless
reduced pursuant to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on
a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant
to §
70.22 or Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems necessary to
give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to division (A)
or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 70.22 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place or part of such highway which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the Board of
Trustees shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits
as the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic
investigation, except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are
part of the state highway system in the village shall be effective without the
approval of the Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph.
   (D)   When the Department or the Board determines by an investigation that
certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-6,187,
60-6,305 and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
70.21 and
70.22 and Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-6,187, 60-6,305 and 60-6,313 or set pursuant to
this section, §
70.22 or Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,188, the Department or the Board may restrict
the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective jurisdiction
and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,190)
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.35 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   The County Sheriff and his or her officers are hereby authorized, empowered
and ordered to exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management
of street traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and, when
necessary, temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety,
health and convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic
of every kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall
stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-683) (Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 70.36 TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   (A)   Disposition and records.
      (1)   The County Sheriff and his or her officers, upon issuing a traffic
citation to an alleged violator of any provision of this chapter, shall deposit
a copy of the traffic citation with the Municipal Attorney, unless the citation
is just a warning.
      (2)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Municipal
Attorney, such citation may be disposed of only by trial in said court, or
other official action by the judge of the court, including a forfeiture of
bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail with, or payment of a fine to the
court by the person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the County Sheriff and his or her officers
to dispose of a traffic citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the
issuance of the same in a manner other than as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
   (B)   Illegal cancellation. Any person who cancels or solicits the
cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner other than as provided
herein shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 29-422, 29-424 and 60-680
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 5-401) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
71.02   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
71.03   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
71.04   Display or repair of vehicle
   
71.05   Current registration
   
71.06   Time limits
   
71.07   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
71.08   Truck and trailer parking
   
71.09   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
Parking for Disabled Persons
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
71.22   Designation of off-street parking stalls, spaces, and access aisles
   
71.23   Personal permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.24   Motor vehicle permit; issuance; renewal
   
71.25   Permits; issuance; prohibitions; duplicates
   
71.26   Permits; period of validity; renewal of temporary permits
   
71.27   Permits nontransferable
   
71.28   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
   
71.29   Citation; complaint
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-680
§ 71.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public
place within the village any vehicle displayed for sale.
   (B)   Except when necessary due to a breakdown or other emergency, no person
shall adjust or repair, or race the motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle
while standing on the highways of the village.
   (C)   No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-301
§ 71.06 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TRUCK AND TRAILER PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL TRAILER. A trailer having a gross weight, including load
thereupon, of more than 9,000 pounds, designed for carrying persons or property
and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its
weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by the towing vehicle.
      FARM TRAILER. Any trailer or semi-trailer used wholly and exclusively to
carry a farmer’s or rancher’s own supplies, farm equipment, livestock or
agricultural products and attached to or drawn by a motor vehicle licensed as a
farm vehicle.
      LOADING AND UNLOADING. The act of delivering or collecting goods, wares,
merchandise or materials for a period of time no longer than is necessary for
the expeditious delivery or collecting of goods, wares, merchandise or
materials.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles propelled by any power other than
muscular power, except mopeds, farm tractors designed and used primarily for
tilling the soil and harvesting crops, excluding vehicles which run only on
rails or tracts, off-road designed vehicles, including, but not limited to,
golf carts, go-carts, riding lawn mowers, garden tractors, all-terrain
vehicles, snowmobiles and minibikes.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A folding camper trailer, rigid travel trailer,
boat trailer or self-propelled motor home designed as temporary living quarters
designed for travel, camping, recreation and vacation use and eligible to be
licensed and registered for highway use.
      SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
the towing vehicle.
      TRAILER. Includes every vehicle without motor power carrying persons or
property and being pulled by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of
its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle having a rated gross vehicle weight of 20,000
pounds or more, equipped or used for the transportation of property.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of its
weight of the vehicle and load being drawn.
      UTILITY TRAILER. A trailer having a gross weight, including load thereon,
of 9,000 pounds or less, attached to a motor vehicle designed for carrying
persons or property and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of
its load rests upon or is carried by the towing vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing upon the
streets or alleys of the village any truck, trailer, truck-tractor, semi-
trailer, farm trailer, utility trailer or commercial trailer, except for the
purposes of loading or unloading. The provisions of this division (B) shall not
apply to trucks or trailers being used in connecting with building, repair,
service or moving operations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing upon the
streets or alleys of the village any recreational vehicle, except for the
purposes of loading or unloading.
(Ord. 2006-8, passed 8-10-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims.
      (2)   Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled to retain
possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien provided for in
this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-6,165)
PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and the
federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Department of
Motor Vehicles that authorizes the use of parking spaces and access aisles that
have been designated for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual,
neurological or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results
in an inability to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a
wheelchair, crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device,
any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON, TEMPORARILY. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. Violation of any section of this subchapter
regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-1736 and 18-1741.01
§ 71.21 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Board may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-3,113.06;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor
vehicles display the permit; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the Village Board so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting above ground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. Rev. Stat.
§ 18-1737. In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be
indicated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street
adjacent to the space or access aisle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1736
§ 71.22 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS, SPACES, AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The village and any person in lawful possession of any off-street parking
facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in such
facility owned or operated by the village or person for exclusive use of:
   (A)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 60-3,113.06;
   (B)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor vehicles display
the permit; and
   (C)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which display
such permit. Such designation shall be made by posting above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. Rev. Stat.
§ 18-1737.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1737
§ 71.23 PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal guardian
or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in
those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when the holder
of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
spaces or access aisles. For the purposes of this section, the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit, shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician’s assistant or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.24 of this code, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of the Nebraska Revised
Statutes.
§ 71.24 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person, and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit, or for the renewal of a permit,
pursuant to this section, shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to
the Village Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to
the Village Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
71.23 of this code, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the Nebraska Revised Statutes.
§ 71.25 PERMITS; ISSUANCE; PROHIBITIONS; DUPLICATES.
   (A)   (1)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle
if any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle
and such permit has been suspended, pursuant to §
71.27 of this code.
      (2)   At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in
the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Village
Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
§ 71.26 PERMITS; PERIOD OF VALIDITY; RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   (1)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months.
      (2)   For the renewal period, there shall be submitted an additional
application with proof of a handicap or disability.
§ 71.27 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person, unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped
parking infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a
period of six months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of
this chapter. In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than
$250, which may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all
handicapped parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are
returned to the court.
      (2)   At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may
be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
§ 71.28 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police or the village, if it provides
on-street parking or owns, operates or provides an off-street parking facility,
may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles,
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons,
of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted above ground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as
a tow-in zone.
   (B)   (1)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or
access aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons, or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, or motor vehicles for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons, or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space or access aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly
displaying the proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom
or for whom, as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not
enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access
aisle shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject
to the procedures set forth in §
71.29 of this code.
      (2)   The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (3)   If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately-owned off-street parking facility, the
village shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the village of a violation of this section prior to the
village issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1737
§ 71.29 CITATION; COMPLAINT.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the village to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   (1)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court.
      (2)   Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time of
appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the handicapped
parking citation.
      (3)   One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be delivered to
the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Village Attorney, or other person authorized by law to issue
a complaint for the particular offense, shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person
shall be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued, the complaint shall be dismissed, if, within seven
business days after the date of issuance of the citation, the person cited
files with the court the affidavit included on the citation, signed by a peace
officer certifying that the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own
right of a handicapped parking permit issued under Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-1738
or 18-1738.01, and that the peace officer has personally viewed the permit.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, and 18-
1741.06
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.08 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours for failure to comply.
(Ord. 2006-8, passed 8-10-2006)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation
   
72.03   Equipment
   
72.04   License and insurance
   
72.05   Prohibitions
   
72.06   Registered with municipality
   
72.07   Compliance with traffic rules
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is 50
inches or less in width, has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less, travels on
three or more non-highway tires and is designed for operator use only with no
passengers or is specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the
operator and one passenger.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to use of the public order for the purpose of vehicular
travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE (UTV). Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is 74
inches in width or less, is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in
length, has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less or travels on four or more
non-highway tires.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-624 and 60-6,355
§ 72.02 OPERATION.
   An ATV or UTV may be operated on the streets and highways within the
corporate limits of the village only if the operator and vehicle comply with
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.03 EQUIPMENT.
   An ATV or UTV may be operated on the streets and highways within the
corporate limits of the village, only if such vehicle is equipped with
operating headlights, taillights, brake lights, an OEM muffler and a federally
approved bicycle safety flag, which extends not less than five feet
aboveground, attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and
shall be clay glow in color.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.04 LICENSE AND INSURANCE.
   Any person operating an ATV or UTV shall have a valid Class O operator’s
license or a farm permit as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-4,126 and
liability insurance coverage for the ATV or UTV while being operated on a
street or highway. The person operating the vehicle shall provide proof of such
insurance coverage to any law enforcement officer requesting such proof.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-4-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   An ATV or UTV shall not be operated on any controlled-access highway
with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be permitted.
   (B)   The crossing of a street or highway, other than a controlled- access
highway, shall be permitted by an ATV or UTV only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at the
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on at the time
the crossing is made.
    (C)   No person shall:
      (1)   Equip the exhaust system of an ATV or UTV with a cutout, bypass or
similar device;
      (2)   Operate an ATV or UTV with an exhaust system so modified; or
      (3)   Operate an ATV or UTV with the spark arrester removed or modified
except for use in closed-course competition events.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-4-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 REGISTERED WITH MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   In order to be authorized for operation on the streets and highways of
the village, an ATV or UTV must be registered in the office of the Village
Clerk-Treasurer, and a registration sticker will be issued upon submitting
proof the following:
      (1)   Written documentation from the Municipal Street Superintendent
indicating that the ATV or UTV has been inspected and complies, in full, with
the equipment requirements identified in §
72.03;
      (2)   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the ATV or UTV while
operating such vehicle on a street or highway; and
      (3)   A $20 annual fee for registration of the ATV or UTV.
   (B)   Upon compliance with the registration requirements identified herein,
the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a registration sticker for the ATV or
UTV being registered. The registration sticker will entitle the ATV or UTV to
be operated on the streets and highways of the village from January 1 in any
year to December 31 and shall be renewable annually. The annual fee shall not
be prorated. Said registration sticker must be prominently displayed upon said
ATV or UTV at all times while such vehicle is in operation on the streets and
highways of the village.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 72.07 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC RULES.
   (A)   Any operator of an ATV or UTV within the village limits shall, in
addition to the requirements above, obey all municipal traffic ordinances and
regulations, including, but not limited to, posted speed limits and stop signs.
No person shall operate an ATV or UTV on the streets or highways of the village
in violation of the state’s rules of the road as established by the revised
statutes of the state.
   (B)   ATV or UTV vehicles may be operated without complying with this
section, on streets and highways in parades which have been authorized by the
state or any department, board, commission or political subdivision of the
state.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 10-4-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Health regulations
   
90.02   Enforcement official
   
90.03   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
90.15   “Nuisances” defined
   
90.16   Abatement
   
90.17   Jurisdiction
   
90.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
90.19   Junk yard; wrecked or discarded vehicles
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Board of Health, see §
32.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-208
§ 90.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees,
as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the village. It
shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-208
§ 90.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
village.
NUISANCES
§ 90.15 “NUISANCES” DEFINED.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the village;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the village or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the village shall keep such real estate free of
nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are otherwise
provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the Board of Trustees and the manner in which
it may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the village or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work done.
   (D)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the Board of Trustees, the Board shall fix a time and place at
which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Board to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a nuisance
and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more than 14
days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and
pursuant to the notice, the Board shall hear all objections made by the owner
or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health or
designated official. If after consideration of all the evidence, the Board of
Trustees finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order
and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the owner
or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the Board may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-1001
§ 90.17 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the village shall extend to the corporate limits and
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1720) (Prior Code, § 4-304)
§ 90.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the village or within the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The village
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the village to appeal the
decision to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer. A hearing on the appeal shall be held
within 14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an
elected or appointed officer as designated in the ordinance. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the village may have the
work done to abate and remove the dead or diseased trees. If the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the
village within five days after receipt of such notice or fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village may have such work
done. The village may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted as a special
assessment.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the village or within its one-mile zoning jurisdiction. The
provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such nuisances. For the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the village police
shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the trees
thereon.
§ 90.19 JUNK YARD; WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any junk or any partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30
days; provided, that this section shall not apply to junk or a vehicle in an
enclosed building, or to junk or a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise, operated in a lawful place and manner, when such is necessary to
the lawful operation of the business and which is screened by natural objects,
plantings, fences or other appropriate means so as not to be visible from a
street. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be summarily abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-306) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-1720 and 39-2605
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Animals and fowls
   
91.02   Running at large; tethering
   
91.03   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
91.04   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
91.05   Impoundment
   
91.06   Interference with police
   
91.07   Taxes and fees; deposit
Dogs and Cats
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Animal control officer
   
91.22   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
91.23   Collar or harness required
   
91.24   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
91.25   Kennel or cattery; permit required
   
91.26   Barking or howling
   
91.27   Fighting
   
91.28   Liability of owner
   
91.29   Dangerous dogs
   
91.30   Limited number on premises
   
91.31   Animal shelter
   
91.32   Pit bull dogs
Rabies
   
91.45   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
91.46   Certificate of vaccination
   
91.47   Impoundment of afflicted animals
   
91.48   Authority to kill
   
91.49   Proclamation of danger
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ANIMALS AND FOWLS.
   To provide for the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the municipality, no horse, mule, cow, calf, sheep, goat, swine, fowl or rabbit
shall be kept or maintained. For other animals or rodents kept or maintained as
pets, confinement and space limitations shall be as approved by the governing
body.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-526) (Prior Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal except a cat to permit
the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and property
or the property of another in the village or to be tethered or staked out in
such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way or
property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the village that is prohibited by the Board
of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §
54-607
§ 91.03 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy any animal, or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the village or any other city
or village, or any other public official authorized by the village or any other
city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special
investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 81-201 while acting within the authority of the Director of
Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds or poultry.
      OWNER or CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 29-422 through 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1009) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Exemptions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. §§ 28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
91.47 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application by regular U.S. mail to the
address listed on the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and on file in the
office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer, except that in addition, an unusual or
other non-domesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition
that the owner shall immediately remove the animal from the village or destroy
it. A diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and
safety of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal
shall be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination
requirements applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of required waiting period after
public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations, except that if in the judgment of the officer a suitable home
can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person who
can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees and
meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The village shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal impounded in the
animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of the
fees established by the Board of Trustees.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-548 and
71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-526 and 17-
547
§ 91.06 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 TAXES AND FEES; DEPOSIT.
   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer, under the direction of
the governing body, to collect all dog license taxes and fees, impoundment fees
and kennel/cattery permit fees. All funds generated from the sale of dog
licenses, delinquent fees, impoundment fees and kennel/cattery permit fees
shall be deposited in the General Fund and used for payment for the services of
the animal control officer, the care of the animal shelter and other necessary
expenses related to the control of dogs and cats and other animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-130)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. Any feline animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   DOG. Any canine animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   KENNEL/CATTERY. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling
dogs or cats.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of, or permitting any dog or cat to habitually be or remain on, or be lodged or
fed within, such person’s house, yard or premises. This term shall not apply to
veterinarians or kennel/cattery operators temporarily maintaining on their
premises dogs and/or cats owned by others for a period of less than 30 days.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a dog or cat with a rabies
vaccine licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture. Such
vaccination must be performed by a doctor of veterinarian medicine licensed by
the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-526 and 71-4401
§ 91.21 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The municipality may employ an animal control officer who, under the
supervision of the governing body, shall be responsible for the enforcement of
all animal and dog and cat regulations under the municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-526
§ 91.22 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the village
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by
the Village Clerk-Treasurer upon payment of a license tax in the amount
established by the Board of Trustees, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 54-603(3). It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to
wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female dog as a male or spayed
female dog if the Board has established different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue to the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which
shall be valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each
year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee
established by the Board of Trustees for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees and other collections shall be credited to the
General Fund of the village, except as otherwise provided by Neb. Rev. Stat. §
54-603.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-526, 54-603 and 71-4412
§ 91.23 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 KENNEL OR CATTERY; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required; fees.
      (1)   No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a kennel/
cattery, commercial animal establishment or animal shelter without first
obtaining a permit in compliance with this section.
      (2)   No kennel/cattery, commercial animal establishment or animal
shelter shall be located in the residential zones of the municipality.
      (3)   When a permit applicant has shown that he or she is willing and
able to comply with all applicable ordinances and statutes, a permit shall be
issued upon payment of the applicable fee.
      (4)   The permit period shall begin on May 1 and shall run for one year.
Renewal applications for permits shall be made 30 days prior to and up to 30
days after May 1 of each year. Application for a permit to establish a new
kennel/cattery, commercial animal establishment or animal shelter under the
provisions of this section may be made at any time.
      (5)   If there is a change in ownership of a kennel/cattery, commercial
animal establishment or animal shelter, the new owner may have the current
permit transferred to his or her name upon payment of a $10 transfer fee.
      (6)   Annual permits shall require the payment of the following
applicable fees:
 
Kennel/Cattery Fees
Less than ten dogs and cats                    $50
Ten or more but fewer than fifty dogs and cats $100
Fifty or more dogs and cats                    $150
 
      (7)   Each separate premises regulated by this section shall be
considered a separate enterprise requiring an individual permit.
      (8)   Any person who has a change in the category under which a permit
was issued shall be subject to reclassification and readjustment of the permit
fee.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit to maintain a kennel/
cattery shall be made to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms
provided for that purpose by the municipality. Such application shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   Name and residence of applicant;
      (2)   Location of premises where animals are to be kept;
      (3)   Species of animals to be kept;
      (4)   Number of animals to be kept; and
      (5)   Diagram or plat of the premises showing dimensions of the premises,
the location of the enclosure, pen and shelter and the distance from
residential buildings on the same lot and on adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
   (C)   Issuance or denial of permit.
      (1)   Before any permit is issued, the Board of Health shall investigate
the application and determine whether or not said premises conform to all the
requirements of this section and other ordinances of the municipality with
respect to sanitation and location of enclosures and shelters. No permit shall
be issued except upon the recommendation of the Board of Health.
      (2)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the permit shall not be issued.
      (3)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be
issued a permit to operate a kennel/cattery, commercial animal establishment or
animal shelter.
      (4)   Any person having been denied a permit may not reapply for a period
of 30 days. Each reapplication shall be accompanied by a $10 fee.
      (5)   Any person to whom a permit is denied may appeal from such denial
to the governing body by filing with the Village Clerk-Treasurer a copy of the
original application with a written request for hearing thereon before the
governing body. A hearing on such appeal shall be had by the governing body
within 30 days from the filing of said appeal with the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 6-111)
   (D)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit that the
Board of Health shall be permitted to inspect all animals and the premises
where animals are kept at any time and shall, if permission for such inspection
is refused, revoke the permit of the refusing owner.
      (2)   The Board of Health may revoke any permit if the person holding the
permit refuses or fails to comply with any section or any statute governing the
protection and keeping of animals or the maintenance of health.
      (3)   Any person whose permit is revoked shall, within ten days
thereafter, humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept or harbored. No part of
the permit fee shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-526 and 54-603
§ 91.26 BARKING OR HOWLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own any dog or cat which by loud,
continued or frequent barking, meowing, howling or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, person or which habitually barks or meows at or
chases pedestrians, drivers or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on
any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in the village. The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to apply to the animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 6-121) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-526
§ 91.27 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
or cats to fighting, or by any gesture or word encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-122) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-526
§ 91.28 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to allow a dog or cat owned by him or
her to injure or destroy any real or personal property of any description
belonging to another person. The owner of any such dog or cat, in addition to
usual judgment upon conviction, may be held liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Prior Code, § 6-123) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 54-601 and 54-602
§ 91.29 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the village, including any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of
the village.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 20-203, 28-520
or 28-521, was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the
dog, was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.    Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-617)
   (B)   Owner requirements.
      (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-618)
   (C)   Confined.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it or under his, her or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall contain the words warning and
dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at least three inches high on a
black background.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-621)
   (E)   Violations.
      (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a serious
bodily injury as defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-109 is guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is
involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (E)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-622.01)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-623)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 54-623
§ 91.30 LIMITED NUMBER ON PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep on any one premises more than four
dogs and four cats if said dogs and cats are more than six months old, unless
the premises is a properly licensed kennel/cattery.
(Prior Code, § 6-124) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-526
§ 91.31 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The village’s animal shelter shall be safe, suitable and conveniently
located for the impounding and keeping of dogs. The shelter shall be sanitary,
ventilated and lighted.
(Prior Code, § 6-129)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-526 and 17-548
§ 91.32 PIT BULL DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor a pit bull
within the corporate limits of the municipality. It shall be the duty of the
municipal police or other authorized law enforcement officer to cause any pit
bull dog found to be within the corporate limits of the village to be taken up
and removed. Law enforcement officers shall have the authority to kill any pit
bull dog showing vicious tendencies which make capture impossible because of
the danger involved.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PIT BULL shall be defined as any dog
having any degree of pit bull in its ancestry.
   (C)   Any persons owning, keeping or harboring a pit bull at the time of the
adoption and passage of this section shall have a period of time determined to
be 30 days in order to comply with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 3-7-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
RABIES
§ 91.45 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the village shall be vaccinated against
rabies with a licensed vaccine and re-vaccinated at intervals specified by
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the department. Young domestic
animals shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the village
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, every hybrid animal
in the village shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be re-vaccinated at
intervals specified by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the village shall be vaccinated within 30 after purchase or
arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the village prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this section with respect to vaccination shall
not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the village for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the village for field trial or show purposes, or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the village for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the village which does not comply with the
animal health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are
applicable to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 71-4405)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION.
   The owner of any dog or cat shall obtain from a veterinarian a certificate,
or other evidence of rabies vaccination, and a tag to indicate that a rabies
vaccination has been given, imprinted with the year of vaccination. The owner
of any dog shall display the tag on each dog owned within the corporate limits
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-526 and 71-4403
§ 91.47 IMPOUNDMENT OF AFFLICTED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat suspected to be afflicted with rabies, or any dog or
cat not vaccinated in accordance with this subchapter, which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin of such person shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a period of not
less than ten days, unless a physician requests that such dog or cat be
destroyed for a specimen to be examined by a certified laboratory. If, upon
examination by a veterinarian, the dog or cat has no signs of rabies at the end
of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner or, in the case of a
stray, it shall be disposed of in accordance with applicable laws.
   (B)   Any dog or cat, vaccinated in accordance with this subchapter which
has bitten any person shall be confined by the owner, or other responsible
person, for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog or cat shall
be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed by
the veterinarian, the dog or cat may be released from confinement.
   (C)   All costs and/or charges incurred under this section shall be borne by
the owner of the suspect dog or cat.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 71-4406
§ 91.48 AUTHORITY TO KILL.
   The animal control officer shall have the authority to kill any dog or cat
running at large showing vicious tendencies or characteristics of rabies which
makes capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-526
§ 91.49 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever in its opinion the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the
premises on which the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all
owners of any such species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in
this section.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed
to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
         (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an
order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.32 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may
be fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours for failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. 2006-2, passed 3-7-
2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
92.01   Fire limits defined
   
92.02   Fire limits building permit
   
92.03   Fire limits materials
   
92.04   Open burning ban; waiver
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: Lots 6, 7 and 8 of Block 14; Lots 4, 5 and 6 of
Block 15; Lots 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of Block 18;
Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Block 19; Lots 3, 4, 5 and 6
of Block 25; and Lots 5 and 6 of Block 26.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-550
§ 92.02 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits, when
the value of such construction shall exceed $1,000, application must be made to
the governing body. Construction shall include the enlarging or alteration of
any building in the fire limits. Such application shall be furnished by the
Municipal Clerk-Treasurer and shall require such information as the governing
body deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-550
§ 92.03 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with such
incombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the structure will
be reasonably fireproof.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-550
§ 92.04 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.       
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above
for an area under the Fire Department’s jurisdiction by issuing an open burning
permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit
issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be
in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a form provided by the State Fire
Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the Fire
Department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief or his or
her designee. Anyone intending to burn in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention
to burn.
   (D) The Fire Chief of a local fire department may adopt standards listing
the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under
division (B) above.
   (E) The Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for inclusion
in the general funds allocated to the Fire department. Such funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course of such
state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 81-520.01) (Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 7-201) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Operation and funding
   
93.02   Injury to property
§ 93.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for
park purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the village
treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the village. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such Board, and warrants against the
Fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the Village Treasurer out of the Fund.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §
17-948, the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall at once
be extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or Park Board
shall have power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public and charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the
village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and
the police power of the village shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-948
through 17-952
§ 93.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any village park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-523
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License requirement
   
110.03   Application procedure
   
110.04   Standards for issuance
   
110.05   Revocation procedure
   
110.06   Standards for revocation
   
110.07   Appeal procedure
   
110.08   Exhibition of identification
   
110.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
110.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Village Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Village Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 110.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.04 or
110.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Village Board, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Village Board shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
110.05.
   (B)   The order of the Village Board after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.16   Licensee requirements
   
111.17   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
111.18   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.19   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
111.20   Catering licenses
   
111.21   Display of license
   
111.22   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.23   Employer liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.24   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.35   Location
   
111.36   Access to dwellings
   
111.37   Sanitary conditions
   
111.38   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.39   Spiking beer
   
111.40   Original package
   
111.41   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.42   Hours of sale
   
111.43   Hiring minors
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. Rev.
Stat. §§ 53-103.01 through 53-103.42 shall be used.
   (B)   STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT or ACT. Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-101 et seq.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-180) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-186(2) or 60-6,211.08, it is unlawful for
any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the
state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the
governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café or club, or any place open to the
general public, to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the State Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café or club, or any place open
to the general public, except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a retail
licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages.
(Prior Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 10-120, passed 6-6-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-186(1) and 53-186.01 
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as in Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. Ch. 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11
or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5)
on May 18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date
from retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred
prior to May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
            (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-125)
§ 111.17 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission recommendations
relative to the granting or refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions, and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the
same, after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.24, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-131, to fix a time and place
for a hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either
orally or by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon
the propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-123.12
and 53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-124.17. The local
governing body shall electronically notify the commission within five days
after authorization of any permit pursuant to this subdivision.
(Neb. Rev. Stat.§ 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-124 the
fee is payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain that license.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-132)
§ 111.18 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on
the premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State
Liquor Control Act or the rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may inspect a charter bus providing service
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public
Service Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-116.01)
§ 111.19 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, one time between January
10 and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law
of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and
each bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer by three or more residents of the village on or before February 10,
or August 10 for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing
to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §
53-135.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-135.01)
§ 111.20 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery
license, or a farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by
filing an application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees
shall process the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.17.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-124.12)
§ 111.21 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-148) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 EMPLOYER LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or any village ordinance by
any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the State Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall be signed and sworn to
by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by
resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for
purposes of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 53-1,115.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.35 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-133 if the affected church submits a written
request for a hearing.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-177)
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-177.01, no alcoholic
liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within
300 feet from the campus of any college or university within the village, and
no bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of any
college, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-124.15.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-177.01) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-
177.01
§ 111.36 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-178) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-
118
§ 111.38 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-183) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.39 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol or permit any
person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of such
licensee.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-174) (Prior Code, § 10-114) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.40 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-184) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-134.03
§ 111.42 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that
the Board of Trustees with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the
village may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of Board
of Trustees, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the Board of
Trustees, no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed inside the corporate limits of the village between the hours of 6:00
a.m. Sunday and 1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12
noon on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of
a Class C license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-179)
§ 111.43 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-119) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-168.06
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-501) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Offenses Against Public Order
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.03   Disturbing the peace
Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
   
130.15   Maintaining a nuisance
   
130.16   Prohibited fences
   
130.17   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
   
130.18   Discharge of firearms
   
130.19   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
130.20   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
130.21   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
130.22   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.23   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to be
upon any street, alley or other public place, or to ride in or about, drive or
otherwise operate any motor vehicle, bicycle or other vehicle upon any street,
alley or other public place between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of
the following day, on all days preceding a school day, nor between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day on all other days, unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult having the legal or physical
custody and care of such minor person, or unless such minor person is upon an
emergency errand or engaged in lawful employment; provided, that when an
activity of the kind normally attended by minors under 16 years terminates
after, or less than one hour prior to 10:30 p.m., the curfew shall commence one
hour after the termination of such activity unless exempted under division (B)
below.
   (B)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 39-301
and 39-302
§ 130.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 130.15 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this village.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the village, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and in every
such case, the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in
any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-1321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 39-307
§ 130.17 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance from accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall not mow, blow, sweep, cast or throw any grass clippings,
leaves, sweepings or other yard waste into the public streets of the
municipality.
   (D)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the municipality is prohibited.
   (E)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless
vegetation; to mow, blow, sweep, cast or throw any grass clippings, leaves,
sweepings or other yard waste into the public streets of the municipality; or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (F)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (G)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such
work is done, the municipality may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefited as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to: Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage,
paper, rags and ashes; wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
grass, leaves and worthless vegetation; dead animals; and any machine or
machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost
their identity, character, utility or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to
perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded or thrown away or
left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 9-5-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-563 and 18-1720
§ 130.18 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-556
§ 130.19 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rocks or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.20 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Any bottle, can or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-186(2) or 60-6,211.08, it is unlawful for
any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the
state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the
governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
   (C)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in the village.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-186 or 60-6,211.08, it
is unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality;
or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-312) (Ord. 6-312, passed 6-6-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 53-186 and 60-6,211.08
§ 130.21 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. Rev. Stat.
§§ 53-103.01 through 53-103.51 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms alcoholic liquor, consume, minor, sale and to sell.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
111.43, no minor may sell, dispense, consume or have in his or her possession
or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place,
including public streets, alleys, roads or highways, upon property owned by the
state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any
other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads
or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor as part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his or
her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-313) (Ord. 10-119, passed 7-2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 53-180.02
§ 130.22 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after the Village Board, pursuant to an
ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of the last-
registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that the
mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth in
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat. §
28-431 shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 71-4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured
home for which an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or village-owned property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
Rev. Stat. § 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall
immediately vest in the village. Any certificate of title issued under this
division to the city shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) above also
notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also be
sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be
required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. Rev. Stat. § 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
(2) is subject to Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the
private towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E)(3) is subject to Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the
private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A) above to be removed from public property in this village, the state agency
shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an
abandoned vehicle described in division (A) above to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the village.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A) above.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-1911) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-301
§ 130.23 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 60-376
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   TREES
      
154.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
150.02   Building moving; regulations; applications
   
150.03   Manufactured homes
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Definition
   
150.16   Prohibitions
   
150.17   Determination; notice
   
150.18   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.19   Emergency
   
150.20   Special assessments
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: Not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   Wetted surfaces of pipes, pipe fittings, plumbing fittings, and
fixtures: not more than 0.025% lead.
(Prior Code, § 9-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 71-5301
§ 150.02 BUILDING MOVING; REGULATIONS; APPLICATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Regulations and applications may be obtained from the County Zoning and
Planning Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 9-101) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure which is to be used as a
place for human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a
permanent site, which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame
any wheels or axles, and which bears a label certifying that it was a built in
compliance with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards, 24 C.F.R. §§ 3280 et seq., promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development; or a modular housing unit as
defined in Neb. Rev. Stat. § 71-1557 bearing the seal of the Department of
Health and Human Services, Regulation and Licensure.
   (B)   Residential zone.
      (1)   There shall be allowed in the residential zone of the village the
placement of manufactured homes if any such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Department of Health and Human Services, Regulation and
Licensure, if prior to May 1, 1998, or by the Public Service Commission on or
after May 1, 1998, or the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development. Such manufactured home shall be located and installed according to
the same standards for foundation systems, permanent utility connections and
setbacks and minimum square footage as would apply to a site-built single-
family dwelling on the same lot.
      (2)   Any such manufactured home shall meet the following standards.
         (a)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area
on the ground floor.
         (b)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
         (c)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two
and one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
         (d)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
         (e)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock.
         (f)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed from the home and removed from the building
lot.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
(Ord. 9-501, passed 12-7-2004)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1720
§ 150.17 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk-Treasurer to post the
property accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in
the office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also serve written notice upon the owner
and any occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or
personal service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
   “To                                          (owner-occupant of premises), of the premises known and described as
                                                 .
 
   “You are hereby notified that                                                         (describe building) on the premises above mentioned has
been determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by                                                                       
. The causes for this decision are                                          (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
 
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to
do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer within ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 8-1722.01
§ 150.18 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk-Treasurer request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting
as the Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be
repaired or demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within
ten days from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board
of Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner
by certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 77-1725.01)
§ 150.19 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.20 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1722)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 151: VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
151.01   Findings
   
151.02   Purposes
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Application
   
151.05   Requirements
   
151.06   Exemptions
   
151.07   Program Administrator powers
   
151.08   Applicability
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 FINDINGS.
   The village finds and declares the following.
   (A)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems for
the village, including a propensity to foster criminal activity, create public
health problems and otherwise diminish quality of life.
   (B)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism
and discourage neighborhood stability.
   (C)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in the village.
   (D)   This chapter relating to vacant property registration will allow the
village to discourage property vacancy, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide
a database of vacant properties and their owners and assess fees for the
increased public costs associated with vacant properties.
   (E)   Fees imposed under this chapter have the potential to benefit the
owners of vacant properties by helping to finance additional government
services to protect the value and security of such properties.
   (F)   Enactment of this chapter is a proper exercise of the village’s
authority to protect the public health, safety and welfare of community
residents and a valid regulatory scheme.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.02 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the health, safety and welfare
of the village residents by providing authority for enacting vacant property
registration requirements. This chapter will allow the village to identify and
register vacant properties, collect fees to compensate for the public costs of
vacant properties, plan for the rehabilitation of vacant properties and
encourage the occupancy of vacant properties.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any building or structure located on a property that is
not a residential building.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that, on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances, would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Any unoccupied or empty building or structure on the property;
      (2)   Lack of active utility service accounts;
      (3)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery and other
plantings;
      (4)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (5)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (6)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
   OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record in
the records of the County Register of Deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit
or building or a trailer house.
   VACANT. A residential building or commercial building exhibiting evidence of
vacancy.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.04 APPLICATION.
   The village hereby adopts this chapter, which applies to any type of either
residential or commercial buildings located within the corporate limits of the
village, except that this chapter shall not apply to property owned by the
federal government, the state or any political subdivision thereof. This
chapter shall create a village-wide vacant property registration database,
which shall be administered by a Program Administrator appointed by the Village
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.05 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Owners of vacant property subject to this chapter shall be required to
register such property with the Program Administrator, on forms provided by the
Program Administrator, if the property has been vacant for 180 days or longer.
If the Program Administrator is aware of a property that has been vacant for
180 days or longer which has not been registered by the owner, the Program
Administrator shall notify the owner, by first-class United States mail, of the
owner’s obligation to register the property within 15 days. If after 15 days
the owner has failed to register the vacant property, the Program Administrator
is authorized to register the vacant property for the owner by completing the
registration form on behalf of the owner.
   (B)   A vacant property registration form shall be in either paper or
electronic form, and the following information shall be required:
      (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number and, if
applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property owner and
his or her agent;
      (2)   The street address and parcel identification number of the vacant
property;
      (3)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the
owner; and
      (4)   The date on which the property became vacant.
   (C)   The property owner, 180 days after initial registration of the vacant
property pursuant to division (A) above or 360 days after the property becomes
vacant, whichever is sooner, shall be required to pay an initial registration
fee. The property owner shall also be required to pay supplemental registration
fees at intervals every six months thereafter for as long as the property
remains on the vacant property registration database.
      (1)   The initial registration fee shall be $250 for a residential
property and $1,000 for a commercial property.
      (2)   The supplemental registration fee shall be double the amount of the
previous fee and shall be paid six months after the date the initial
registration fee is due. The supplemental registration fee shall automatically
double at intervals every six months thereafter until reaching a maximum
supplemental registration fee of ten times the initial registration fee amount.
      (3)   The Program Administrator shall give notice to the vacant property
owner of a schedule of maximum supplemental registration fees should the
property remain on the registry.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Vacant properties meeting the following conditions may be exempt from
this chapter.
   (B)   Exempt properties are properties for which the Village Board of
Trustees has granted an exemption as set forth in this section that are:
      (1)   Property advertised in good faith for sale or lease (for the
purpose of this section, GOOD FAITH is defined as being listed for sale and
actively marketed at a price no more than 125% of the assessed value as
determined by the County Assessor);
      (2)   Property actively under construction (a property is “under
construction” when the Village Clerk-Treasurer has issued a valid building
permit to the owner of the property, however, this exemption shall cease to
apply if the building permit is revoked or expires in any way); or
      (3)   Owned by the federal government, the state or any political
subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.07 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR POWERS.
   (A)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to this chapter will
assume the obligations of the previous owner or owners.
   (B)   Property shall be removed from the vacant property registration
database when the property is no longer vacant.
   (C)   Owners of registered property shall submit a plan for occupancy of the
property.
   (D)   Owners have the right to prior notice and to appeal adverse decisions
of the Program Administrator. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail to
the registered owner at the address maintained in the County Assessor’s office
at least ten days prior to such adverse decision.
   (E)   The Program Administrator, or his or her designee, may inspect the
interior and exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one-year
intervals thereafter for so long as the property remains on the vacant property
registration database.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.08 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemental to and in addition to
the Vacant Property Registration Act (Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-5401 et seq.) and
any other laws of the state relating to vacant property.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Failure of a property owner to comply with the requirements of this chapter
may be enforced by municipal fines of up to $100 per violation. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with
the provisions of this chapter. In addition, the village may enforce the
collection of vacant property registration fees by civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction. Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid
fines for any violation of a vacant property registration ordinance shall
become a lien on the applicable property upon the recording of a notice of such
lien in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 10-4-2022)
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Maintenance and control
   
152.03   Guttering and eave spouts
   
152.04   Prohibited obstructions
   
152.05   Overhanging branches
   
152.06   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
152.20   Sale and conveyance
   
152.21   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
152.22   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
152.23   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
Sidewalks
   
152.35   Requirement to keep clean
   
152.36   Repair
   
152.37   Construction and repair at village direction
Streets and Alleys
   
152.50   Improving; vacating; abutting property; how treated
   
152.51   Off-street parking; markets; public utilities; establishment; eminent
domain; procedure
   
152.52   Crossings
   
152.53   Names and numbers
   
152.54   Excavation
   
152.55   Driving stakes
   
152.56   Mixing concrete
   
152.57   Harmful liquids
 
   
152.99   Penalty
 
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
   STREET SUPERINTENDENT. The village official with general charge, direction
and control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for
streets and another official is responsible for sidewalks, STREET
SUPERINTENDENT shall mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term
is used.
§ 152.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-567)
§ 152.03 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the village where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 152.04 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided in §
90.16.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from streetlights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
90.16.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the
Village Clerk-Treasurer of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it
shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent to inspect the proposed place of
entry into the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Board or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Street Superintendent, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Board to order the Street
Superintendent, under the supervision and inspection of the Village Engineer or
the committee of the Board on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Board may consent to the cutting and closing
of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Board, the applicant for the permit
shall deposit with the Village Clerk-Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Board for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the village. If the Board elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the village until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Street Superintendent or of the committee of the Board on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the village with a good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the Board in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
150.99
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 152.20 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (H) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for
park purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale of such
real property.
   (B)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real property described in division (A) above, and the terms
of such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in
a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality.
   (C)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance petition against such sale, conforming to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 32-
628, is signed by registered voters of the municipality, equal in number to 30%
of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein, and is filed with the governing body of such
municipality, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be
sold. If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but
the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day.
   (D)   Upon the receipt of the petition, the governing body, with the aid and
assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine the
validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The governing body
shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by hand
carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the governing body a written receipt that the
petition is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the petition with the voter registration records to determine if
each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition
was filed with the governing body. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall also compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting
precinct and city, village or post office address with the voter registration
records to determine whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature
and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk determines that the printed name, street and number or voting
precinct and city, village or post office address matches the registration
records and that the registration was received on or before the date on which
the petition was filed with the governing body. The determinations of the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence
which the governing body finds sufficient. The express purpose of the
comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration records, in
addition to helping to determine the validity of the petition, the sufficiency
of the petition and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent
fraud, deception and misrepresentation in the petition process. Upon completion
of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration records,
the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name and address of each signer
found not to be a registered voter and the signature page number and line
number where the name is found, and if the reason for the invalidity of the
signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the signer, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason for the
invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once to the
petition and that only one person is registered by that name, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification under
seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count only the
earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify to the governing body the number of valid signatures necessary to
constitute a valid petition. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
deliver the petition and the certifications to the governing body within 40
days after the receipt of the petition from the governing body. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature
page shall be counted.
   (E)   The governing body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
petition and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the petition and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The governing body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the petition is valid and shall uphold the petition if
sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (F)   Real property now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (G)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be confirmed by
passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the
sale. The Municipal Clerk-Treasurer shall, upon passage of such ordinance,
certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the county in
which the property is located.
   (H)   Notwithstanding the procedures in divisions (A) through (G) above,
real property owned by the municipality may be conveyed when such property:
      (1)   Is sold in compliance with the requirements of federal or state
grants or programs;
      (2)   Is conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Consists of streets and alleys.
   (I)   Divisions (A) through (H) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the municipality for a period of not
less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
   (J)   The power of the municipality to convey any personal property owned by
it shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms
of the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
personal property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places
within the municipality for a period of not less than seven days prior to the
sale of the property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than
$5,000, notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the municipality at least seven days prior to the
sale of the personal property. The notice shall give a general description of
the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure set forth in
this division (J) when such property is being sold in compliance with the
requirements of federal or state grants or programs or such property is being
conveyed to another public agency.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 11-1-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-503, 17-503.01 and 17-503.02
§ 152.21 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. Rev. Stat. Ch. 72, art. 14 and including construction of
buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
152.23.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Trustees adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be
issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the
electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such a building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) above, and the question of the issuance
of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as
one question at a general village or special election if so ordered by
resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. Rev. Stat. Ch. 72, art.
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-954)
§ 152.22 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 13-403)
§ 152.23 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 18-1755)
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.35 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk.
   (B)   Unless the Board of Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks
within the business district shall be cleaned within five hours after the
cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m.
the following day, and sidewalks within the residential areas of the village
shall be cleaned within 24 hours after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 REPAIR.
   The municipal official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the
municipality to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such
sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance
of notice said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said
repairs shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No
special assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall
neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed, and in the event that
such owner fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made
and assess the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the
municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 152.37 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised
without creating an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-
2417 through 19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 152.50 IMPROVING; VACATING; ABUTTING PROPERTY; HOW TREATED.
   (A)   The village shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the village and
also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by
ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley, or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of such property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
   (C)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only on
one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the owner
of the abutting property and become a part of such property unless the village
reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street, avenue,
alley, or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may be sold,
conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be
deemed in the best interests of the village.
   (D)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance or resolution
with the register of deeds for the county in which the vacated property is
located to be indexed against all affected lots.
   (E)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
      (2)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on, or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-558)
§ 152.51 OFF-STREET PARKING; MARKETS; PUBLIC UTILITIES; ESTABLISHMENT; EMINENT
DOMAIN; PROCEDURE.
   The village shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any street,
avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul, vacate,
or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area, or public way; take private
property for public use for the purpose of erecting or establishing market
houses, market places, parks, swimming pools, airports, gas systems, including
distribution facilities, water systems, power plants, including electrical
distribution facilities, sewer systems, or for any other needed public purpose;
and exercise the power of eminent domain within or without the village limits
for the purpose of establishing and operating power plants including electrical
distribution facilities to supply such village with public utility service, and
for sewerage purposes, water supply systems, or airports. The procedure to
condemn property shall be exercised in the manner set forth in Neb. Rev. Stat.
§§ 76-704 to 76-724, except as to property specifically excluded by Neb. Rev.
Stat. § 76-703 and as to which Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 19-701 to 19-707 or the
Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act is applicable. For purposes of
this section, electrical distribution facilities shall be located within the
retail service area of such village as approved by and on file with the
Nebraska Power Review Board, pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. Chapter 70, art. 10.
(Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-559)
§ 152.52 CROSSINGS.
   The Board of Trustees may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Superintendent, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the Board of Trustees deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall refer
the application to the Street Superintendent, who shall investigate and make a
recommendation to the Board of Trustees. Action by the Board of Trustees on the
application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
§ 152.53 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Board of Trustees may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the
Board of Trustees may require. It shall be the duty of the Street
Superintendent, upon the erection of any new building, to assign the proper
numbers to the building and give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.54 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Superintendent authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.55 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.56 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.57 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 8-601) (Ord. 1-1001, passed 6-6-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 17-207, 17-505, 18-1720 and 18-
1722
CHAPTER 153: TREES
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Street tree species to be planted
   
153.03   Spacing
   
153.04   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
153.05   Distance from street corners and the like
   
153.06   Utilities
   
153.07   Public tree care
   
153.08   Tree topping
   
153.09   Pruning corner, sidewalk, traffic sign and alleyway clearance
   
153.10   Tree and stump removal
   
153.11   Interference with Village Tree Board
   
153.12   Arborist qualifications
   
153.13   Arborist license and bond
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORIST. A professional who is educated in arboriculture which is the art
and science of planting, caring for and maintaining trees. Refer to Tree City
USA Bulletin #6 for ARBORIST status suggested guidelines (contained in the
State Community Forestry Council’s South Central Working Group’s informational
packet).
   LARGE TREES. Trees that when mature exceed 40 feet in height.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees that when mature in height are 25 to 40 feet tall.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and recreational property having individual names and all areas owned by
the municipality, or to which the public has free access as a park.
   SMALL TREES. Trees that at their mature height are less than 25 feet tall.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying on municipal rights-of-way lying between property lines on either side of
all streets, avenues, boulevards, culs-de-sac, alleys or ways within the
municipality and the driving surfaces thereof.
   VILLAGE FORESTER. The village area resident responsible for the tree care,
funding and application of, for and to tree beautification programs for the
village. The Chairperson shall appoint a Village Forester and approval shall be
by the governing body. The Village Forester shall have the authority and
support to carry out, execute and administer the comprehensive village tree
plan for the village, as proposed by the Village Tree Board and approved by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
§ 153.02 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The official street tree species list for the village shall be the correct
zone recommendations for the village area of the most current List of Woody
Plants for Nebraska Communities put out by the State Forest Service. No species
other than those included in this list may be planted as street trees without
written permission of the Village Tree Board. Tree species not recommended for
plantings shall be contained in the comprehensive village tree plan.
(Prior Code, § 8-502)
§ 153.03 SPACING.
   (A)   The spacing of street/park trees will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in §
153.01.
   (B)   The suggested spacing between street/park trees shall be no closer
together than the following, except in special plantings designed or approved
by landscape architects or professional arborists:
      (1)   Small trees: 30 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 8-503)
§ 153.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   (A)   The distance street/park trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines
and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed
in §
153.01, and trees should not be planted where there is less than six feet
between any curb and/or sidewalk. If more than six feet exists in said
property, trees planted in said property shall be equal distance but no less
than three feet from the sidewalk and the curb.
   (B)   Private property trees shall be encouraged to be planted greater
distances from sidewalks as described above for street/park trees.
(Prior Code, § 8-504)
§ 153.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 12 feet of any fireplug/
fire hydrant.
   (C)   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
153.01 may be planted within 15 feet of a neighbor’s driveway without
permission from the neighbor.
   (D)   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
153.01 may be planted within 15 feet of a municipal alleyway.
(Prior Code, § 8-505) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
153.01 may be planted under or within 15 lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, streetlight or over or within seven lateral feet of any underground water
line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility or as otherwise described
by municipal easement rights.
(Prior Code, § 8-506) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, boulevards, lanes, squares, culs-de-sac and public grounds as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds. The Village Tree Board may remove, or cause or
order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition
or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines, communication lines or other public improvements, or is
affected with any injurious fungus, virus, bacteria, insect or other pest.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street/park trees by
adjacent property owners; provided, that the selection and location of said
tree is in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-507)
§ 153.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to top any street/
park tree or other tree on public property. For the purpose of this section,
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
four inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted
from this chapter at the determination of the Village Tree Board or the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-508) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.09 PRUNING CORNER, SIDEWALK, TRAFFIC SIGN AND ALLEYWAY CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the municipality shall prune the branches so that such said branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 12 feet above the
surface of the street or alleyways or traffic signs. Said owners shall remove
all dead or hazard trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace
to the safety of the public. The municipality shall have the right to prune any
tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of
light along the street from a streetlight or intersection or interferes with
visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
   (B)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any sidewalk within the village
shall prune branches so a sidewalk clearance of eight feet is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 8-509)
§ 153.10 TREE AND STUMP REMOVAL.
   (A)   Dead or hazard tree removal. The municipality shall have the right to
cause the removal of any dead or hazard trees or shrubs within the municipal
limits when such vegetation constitutes a hazard to life and property or
harbors insects/diseases which are a potential threat to other trees within the
village. The Village Tree Board shall notify in writing the owners of such
trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense and shall be
accomplished within the time limits set by the Village Tree Board. If any owner
fails to comply with the removal notice, the municipality shall cause the trees
to be removed, and the expense thereof shall be charged to the owner and become
a lien upon the real estate concerned.
(Prior Code, § 8-510)
   (B)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground.
(Prior Code, § 8-511)
§ 153.11 INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
implementation of the decisions of the Village Tree Board, or any of its
agents, while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching,
pruning, spraying or removing of any street/park trees, or trees on public or
private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-512) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.12 ARBORIST QUALIFICATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of planting, pruning, treating or removing street or park trees
within the village without first filing evidence of being a professional
arborist, as defined in §
153.01, and obtaining a license/permit from the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-513) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.13 ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of planting, pruning, treating or removing street or park trees
within the village without first applying for and procuring a license/permit
from the governing body. No license shall be required of any public service
company or municipal employees during such work in the pursuit of their public
service endeavors. Before any license/permit shall be issued, each applicant
shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance and workers’
compensation indemnifying the village or any person injured or damaged as a
result of the negligence of the permittee or its employees or agents.
(Prior Code, § 8-514) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Comprehensive Development Plan
   
154.02   Municipal Zoning and Subdivision Regulations
Subdivisions and Additions
   
154.15   Subdivisions and additions permitted
   
154.16   Survey and plat
   
154.17   Additions; incorporation into municipality
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Village Board of Trustees have incorporated the Comprehensive
Development Plan for the village, including the zoning jurisdiction extending
approximately one mile from the corporate limits of the village, as recommended
by the County Regional Planning Commission after the completion of the required
Public Hearings.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 3-19-2021)
§ 154.02 MUNICIPAL ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   The Village Board of Trustees have incorporated the Village Zoning and
Subdivision Regulations, including the zoning jurisdiction extending
approximately one mile from the corporate limits of the village, as recommended
by the County Regional Planning Commission after the completion of the required
public hearings.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-19-2021)
SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 154.15 SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS PERMITTED.
   The proprietor or proprietors of any land within the corporate limits of the
village, or of any land within the area designated as the village’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-1002, may lay
out such land into lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys and other grounds
under the name of “                         Addition to the Village of
Phillips” and may subdivide, plat or lay out any such land upon conformance to
and compliance with the conditions in this code and state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 9-102, passed 7-2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-916
§ 154.16 SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   Every original owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who
shall subdivide such tract or parcel into two or more parts for the purpose of
laying out any addition to the village, or suburban lots, shall cause a plat of
such subdivision, with references to known or permanent monuments, to be made,
which shall accurately describe all subdivisions of such tract or parcel of
land, numbering such tract or parcel by progressive numbers, and giving the
dimensions and length and breadth of such tract or parcel, and the breadth and
courses of all streets and alleys established therein.
   (B)   The map or plat of land within the corporate limits of the village or
of any land within the area designated as the village’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction, pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. § 17-1002, shall designate explicitly
the land so laid out and particularly describe the lots, blocks, streets,
avenues, alleys and other grounds belonging to such addition. The lots shall be
designated by numbers, and streets, avenues and other grounds shall be
designated by names or numbers. Such plat shall be acknowledged before some
other officer authorized to take the acknowledgments of deeds and shall contain
a dedication of the streets, alleys and public grounds therein to the use and
benefit of the public, and have appended a survey made by some competent
surveyor with a certificate attached, certifying that he or she has accurately
surveyed such addition and that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys,
parks, commons and other grounds are well and accurately staked off and marked.
When such map or plat is so made out, acknowledged and certified, and has been
approved by the Board of Trustees, the same shall be filed and recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds and County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 11-102) (Ord. 9-103, passed 7-2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 18-3304 and 19-916
§ 154.17 ADDITIONS; INCORPORATION INTO MUNICIPALITY.
   All additions to the village laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the village shall remain a part of the village. All
additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be
included within the corporate limits and become a part of the village for all
purposes whatsoever at such time as the addition is approved as provided in
Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-916. If the Board of Trustees includes the addition within
the corporate limits, the inhabitants of such addition shall be entitled to all
the rights and privileges and shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-103) (Ord. 9-104, passed 7-2-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. Rev. Stat. § 19-916
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   STREET DEDICATIONS AND VACATIONS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Granting natural gas franchise to the Kansas-Nebraska Energy. Actual
-     - -    details of the agreement and the present gas rates, charges and fees are
             available at the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 10-301)
             Granting telephone franchise to Hamilton Telecommunications. Actual details
-     - -    of the agreement and the present telephone rates, charges and fees are
             available at the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 10-302)
             Granting electricity gas franchise to Nebraska Public Power District.
-     - -    Actual details of the agreement and the present electrical rates, charges
             and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 10-303)
10-   9-9-   Granting cable television franchise to Charter Communications VI, LLC d/b/
305   2003   a Charter Communications. Actual details of the agreement and the rates,
             charges and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 10-304)
2006- 4-4-   Granting a gas franchise to Kinder Morgan, Inc.
3     2006
            
 
TABLE II: STREET DEDICATIONS AND VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
8-309    8-6-2003    Vacating a tract of land comprising South Railroad Street.
                     Dedicating the following real property to public use by
                     the village: A tract of land comprising a part of vacated
8-310    8-6-2003    South Railroad Street, a triangular tract in the northwest
                     corner of Lot 14 and part of a tract of land deeded to the
                     village in Warranty Deed Book #28, page #457.
                    
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
8-110 8-10-  Sale of real estate comprising part of Lot 4, Block 22, Original Town
      2004   to Steven Smith.
2010- 3-2-   Sale of real estate described as Lots 3 and 4, Block 3, Gallentine’s
1     2010   Addition, to the Village of Giltner, Nebraska.
2020- 2-11-  Sale of real estate described as the north half of Lot 5 and the south
1     2020   half of Lot 4 in Block 2, Original Town, to Dwayne Bergmark and
             Kimberly Bergmark.
2023- 12-5-  Sale of real estate described as a part of the Northeast Quarter of
4     2023   the Northeaster Quarter, Section 27, Township 11 North, Range 8 West
             of the 6th P.M.
            
 
TABLE IV: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving the conditional use permit for a motorcycle
2022-2   9-6-2022    sales business in a commercial district on Lot 20, and all
                     Lot 21, Block 18, Original Town.
                     Approving the conditional use permit for a temporary
2023-1   1-3-2023    storage unit in a commercial district on Lots 4-7, Block
                     15, Original Town.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
10-101 through 10-143        34.11
11-101                       30.03;
                             31.02
11-104                       31.01
11-105                       31.01
11-109                       31.01
11-110                       31.01
11-111                       31.01
11-112                       31.01
11-113                       31.01
11-114                       31.01
11-115                       31.01
11-116                       31.01
11-117                       31.01
11-118                       31.01
13-403                       152.22
                             34.29;
13-501 et seq.               34.31;
                             34.34
13-504                       34.28
13-505                       34.28
13-506                       34.29
13-507                       34.29
13-508                       34.30
13-509                       34.30
13-510                       34.33
13-511                       34.34
13-518 through 13-522        34.29;
                             34.30
13-519                       33.05
13-606                       34.01
13-804                       32.01
13-825 et seq.               31.54;
                             31.55
13-903                       34.04
13-2001 et seq.              51.03
13-2012                      51.01
13-2013.02                   51.03
13-2014                      51.01
13-2016.01                   51.01;
                             51.03
                             51.01;
13-2020                      51.02;
                             51.04;
                             51.05
                             51.01;
13-2023                      51.04;
                             51.05
                             51.01;
13-2026                      51.04;
                             51.05
13-2039                      51.03
13-2501 et seq.              31.54
16-318(3)                    31.24
16-714 through 16-716        34.09
17-754                       53.002
17-202                       30.01;
                             33.06
17-203                       30.01
                             30.03;
17-204                       31.50–
                             31.53
17-205                       31.52;
                             31.53
                             10.99;
                             30.02;
                             32.99;
                             50.99;
                             70.99;
17-207                       90.99;
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
                             111.99;
                             150.99;
                             152.99
                             31.20;
17-208                       32.03;
                             90.01;
                             90.02
17-209                       31.03
                             30.01;
17-209.02                    31.03;
                             31.21
                             30.04;
17-210                       30.25;
                             31.52
17-213.01                    31.29
17-214                       31.26
17-502                       11.01
17-503                       152.20
17-503.01                    152.20
17-503.02                    152.20
                             10.99;
                             30.20;
                             32.99;
                             50.99;
                             70.99;
17-505                       90.99;
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
                             111.99;
                             150.99;
                             152.99
17-509 through 17-521        152.37
17-522                       152.37
17-524                       152.37
                             52.12;
                             91.01;
                             91.02;
                             91.05;
                             91.20—
17-526                       91.22;
                             91.25—
                             91.27;
                             91.30;
                             91.31;
                             91.46;
                             91.48
17-531                       52.02
17-534                       52.02
                             52.03;
                             52.06;
17-537                       52.08—
                             52.10;
                             52.13—
                             52.15
17-538                       50.04
17-540                       34.10;
                             52.18
17-542                       52.06;
                             52.18
17-547                       91.02;
                             91.05
17-548                       91.05;
                             91.31
17-550                       92.01—
                             92.03
17-555                       90.18;
                             130.02
17-556                       130.18
17-557                       130.02
17-558                       152.50
17-559                       152.51
17-563                       90.16;
                             130.17
17-567                       152.02
17-568                       31.29
17-568.01                    31.29;
                             34.02
17-568.02                    34.02
17-601.01                    33.09
17-601.02                    33.09
17-601.03                    33.09
17-602                       33.04
                             31.01;
17-604                       31.03;
                             31.20
17-605                       31.23
17-606                       31.24
17-606(2)                    31.24
17-607                       34.08
17-608                       34.10
17-609                       34.10
17-610                       31.25
17-611                       31.03
17-612                       31.03
                             30.23;
17-613                       30.25—
                             30.27;
                             34.02
                             10.15;
17-614                       30.23;
                             30.24;
                             30.28
17-615                       30.26
17-616                       30.24
17-701                       34.25
17-702                       34.07;
                             34.45
17-703                       34.05
17-706                       34.31
17-708                       34.27
17-710                       34.06
17-711                       34.03
17-714                       34.04
17-715                       34.04
17-720                       34.09
17-901                       53.004;
                             53.005
17-902                       53.004;
                             53.005
17-919                       31.29
17-925.01                    50.04;
                             53.002
17-925.02                    53.006
17-948                       93.01
17-948 through 17-952        93.01
17-949                       93.01
17-951                       93.01
17-952                       93.01
17-953                       32.05;
                             152.21
17-953.01                    152.21
17-954                       152.21
17-1001                      90.16
17-1002                      154.15;
                             154.16
17-1237 et seq.              34.10
17-1269 et seq.              34.10
18-131                       30.25
18-132                       10.16;
                             30.20
18-305 through 18-312        31.04
18-412.01                    34.02
                             50.04;
18-503                       53.004;
                             53.005
18-508                       53.003
18-1001 through 18-1006      152.20
18-1214                      34.47
18-1216                      34.05
18-1701                      31.23
                             10.99;
                             30.02;
                             32.99;
                             50.99;
                             51.05;
                             70.99;
                             90.16;
                             90.17;
18-1720                      90.19;
                             90.99;
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
                             111.99;
                             130.17;
                             150.16;
                             150.99;
                             152.99
                             10.99;
                             32.99;
                             50.99;
                             70.99;
                             90.99;
18-1722                      91.99;
                             92.99;
                             111.99;
                             150.20;
                             150.99;
                             152.99
18-1722.01                   150.17
18-1736                      71.20;
                             71.21
                             71.21;
18-1737                      71.22;
                             71.28
                             71.20;
18-1738                      71.23;
                             71.29
18-1738.01                   71.29
18-1741.01                   71.20;
                             71.29
18-1741.04                   71.29
18-1741.06                   71.29
18-1748                      53.073
18-1755                      152.23
18-1756                      34.02
18-1801 through 18-1805      34.11
18-2101 through 18-2154      32.06
18-2101.01                   32.06
18-2401 et seq.              31.54
18-2801 et seq.              34.25;
                             34.28
18-2804                      34.01
18-3301                      31.29
19-701 to 19-707             152.51
19-912.01                    32.02
19-915                       30.28
19-916                       154.15—
                             154.17
19-922                       30.20
19-925                       32.01
19-1101                      31.24
19-1102                      31.23
19-1103                      31.23;
                             31.24
19-1301                      34.07
19-1302                      34.07
19-1303                      34.07
19-1304                      34.07
19-1305                      52.02
19-2417 through 19-2419      152.37
19-2701                      52.04
19-2902 through 19-2905      34.01
19-3041                      33.09
19-3701                      30.27
19-3901                      31.27
19-5401 et seq.              151.08
20-203                       91.29
23-122                       31.23
25-505.01                    33.11
25-2703                      30.20
28-109                       91.29
Ch. 28, art. 3               111.16
Ch. 28, art. 4               111.16
28-431                       130.22
28-520                       91.29
28-521                       91.29
28-523                       93.02
Ch. 28, art. 7               111.16
Ch. 28, art. 8               111.16
Ch. 28, art. 10              111.16
28-1008                      91.04;
                             91.29
28-1009                      91.04
28-1012                      91.04
28-1013                      91.04
Ch. 28, art. 11              111.16
Ch. 28, art. 12              111.16
28-1321                      90.16;
                             130.15
28-1322                      130.03
29-422                       70.36
29-422 through 29-429        91.04
29-424                       70.36
32-101 et seq.               33.01;
                             34.07
32-101                       30.01
32-110                       33.04
32-115                       33.04
32-401                       33.06
32-404                       33.02;
                             33.06
32-405                       33.05;
                             33.11
32-532                       30.01;
                             33.06
32-554                       30.01
32-556                       33.02;
                             33.06
32-557                       30.01;
                             33.07
32-558                       33.10
32-559                       33.05
32-560                       30.06
32-560 through 32-572        30.06
32-561                       30.06
32-562                       33.11
32-567 through 32-570        33.11
32-569                       30.06
32-602                       30.01
32-604                       30.01
32-608                       33.08
32-628                       152.20
32-629                       33.11
32-630                       33.11
32-574                       33.11
32-802                       33.03
32-952 through 32-959        33.05
32-1033                      33.10
32-1202                      33.05
32-1301                      33.11
32-1302                      33.11
32-1303                      33.11
32-1304                      33.11
32-1305                      33.11
32-1306                      33.11
32-1307                      33.11
32-1308                      30.06;
                             33.11
32-1309                      33.11
33-141                       31.24
39-301                       130.02
39-302                       130.02
39-307                       130.16
39-2512                      31.26
39-2605                      90.19
                             31.06;
44-3301 et seq.              31.54;
                             31.55
44-4303                      31.06
44-4304                      31.06
45-601 et seq.               34.12
45-623                       34.12
48-1503                      34.02
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      31.04
49-1425                      31.04
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 31.04
49-1499.04                   31.04
49-14,102                    31.04
49-14,103.01                 31.04
49-14,103.02                 31.04
49-14,103.03                 31.04
49-14,103.04                 31.04
49-14,103.05                 31.04
49-14,103.06                 31.04
51-215                       34.07
51-216                       34.07
53-101 et seq.               111.01
53-103.01 through 53-103.42  111.01
53-103.01 through 53-103.51  130.21
53-116.01                    111.18
53-118                       111.37
53-123.12                    111.17
53-124                       111.17;
                             111.20
53-124.01                    111.17
53-124.12                    111.20
53-124.15                    111.35
53-125                       111.16
53-129                       111.17
53-131                       111.17
53-132                       111.17
53-133                       111.17;
                             111.35
53-134.03                    111.37;
                             111.41
53-134.04                    111.24
53-135                       111.19
53-135.01                    111.17;
                             111.19
53-148                       111.21
53-168.06                    111.15;
                             111.43
53-174                       111.39
53-177                       111.35
53-177.01                    111.35
53-178                       111.36
53-179                       111.42
53-180                       111.02
53-180.02                    130.21
53-183                       111.38
53-184                       111.40
53-186                       130.20
53-186(1)                    111.03
53-186(2)                    111.03
53-186.01                    111.03
53-1,101                     111.22
53-1,102                     111.23
53-1,115                     111.24
53-1,121                     111.04
54-601                       91.28
54-602                       91.28
54-603                       91.22;
                             91.25
54-603(3)                    91.22
54-605                       91.23
54-607                       91.02
54-617                       91.29
54-618                       91.29
54-619                       91.29
54-620                       91.29
54-621                       91.29
54-622.01                    91.29
54-623                       91.29
55-133                       70.01
60-137                       34.47
60-169                       130.22
                             34.47;
60-301                       71.05;
                             130.22
60-376                       130.23
60-3,104                     34.47
60-3,113.06                  71.21;
                             71.22
60-4,126                     72.04
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01;
                             72.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01
                             70.03;
60-680                       70.36;
                             71.01
60-681                       70.02
60-683                       70.35
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,119                     70.05
60-6,121                     70.04
60-6,165                     71.09
60-6,166                     71.02
60-6,167                     71.07
60-6,185                     70.20
60-6,186                     70.21
60-6,187                     70.21;
                             70.22
60-6,188                     70.21;
                             70.22
60-6,190                     70.22
60-6,211.08                  111.02;
                             130.20
60-6,305                     70.21;
                             70.22
60-6,313                     70.21;
                             70.22
60-6,355                     72.01
60-1901                      130.22
60-1902                      130.22
60-1903                      130.22
60-1903.01                   130.22
60-1903.02                   130.22
60-1904                      130.22
60-1905                      130.22
60-1906                      130.22
60-1907                      130.22
60-1908                      130.22
60-1909                      130.22
60-1911                      130.22
60-2410                      130.22
70-624.04                    31.04
Ch. 70, art. 10              152.51
70-1601 through 70-1615      50.03
70-1602                      50.02
70-1603                      50.02
70-1604                      50.02
70-1607                      50.02
70-1608 through 70-1614      50.02
70-1615                      50.02
71-423                       111.04
71-1557                      150.03
71-4401                      91.20
71-4402                      91.45
71-4403                      91.46
71-4404                      91.45
71-4405                      91.45
71-4406                      91.47
71-4408                      91.05
71-4412                      91.22
71-5301                      150.01
Ch. 72, art. 14              152.21
73-101 et seq.               34.02
76-703                       152.51
76-704 to 76-724             152.51
77-1601                      34.46
77-1632                      34.46
77-1606                      34.46
77-1725.01                   150.18
77-2201                      31.24
77-2201 through 77-2215      31.24
77-2202                      31.24
77-2209                      31.24
77-2210                      31.24
77-2212                      31.24
77-2341                      34.10
77-2362                      34.08
77-2365.01                   34.08;
                             34.09
77-2366                      34.08;
                             34.09
77-2386 et seq.              34.08
77-3442                      93.01
77-3444                      33.04;
                             33.05
81-145 through 81-162        34.02
81-201                       91.04
81-520.01                    92.04
81-829.51                    34.34
81-1501 to 81-1532           51.03
81-1502                      51.01
84-304                       34.01
84-712 through 84-712.09     31.23;
                             31.24
84-712(2)                    31.23
84-1201 et seq.              31.23
84-1407 et seq.              31.41;
                             31.45
84-1408                      31.41
84-1408 through 84-1414      31.54;
                             31.55
84-1409                      31.40;
                             31.54
84-1410                      31.44
                             31.41—
84-1411                      31.43;
                             31.54
84-1411(3)                   31.55
84-1411(7)                   31.41
84-1412                      31.45
84-1413                      31.47;
                             31.49
86-329 through 86-331        50.03
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-203              31.22
1-209              31.27
1-401              11.01
1-512              31.50
1-513              31.51
1-514              31.52
1-515              31.53
1-516              31.54
1-517              31.55
1-702              33.06
1-706              33.05
1-710              33.10
1-808              34.46
1-811              34.01
1-814              34.33
1-819              34.08
1-825              34.09
1-903              31.05
1-1001             31.06
1-1101             10.99
2-201              32.01
2-202              32.02
2-204              32.04
2-205              32.05
2-301              32.99
3-101              52.02
3-102              52.01
3-103              52.03
3-104              52.04
3-105              52.05
3-106              52.06
3-107              52.06
3-108              52.08
3-109              52.18
3-110              52.18
3-111              52.09
3-112              52.10
3-113              52.11
3-114              52.12
3-115              52.13
3-116              52.14
3-117              52.15
3-118              52.16
3-119              52.17
3-201              53.002
3-202              53.001
3-203              53.003
3-204              53.004
3-205              53.005
3-206              53.074
3-207              53.075
3-208              53.006
3-209              53.020
3-210              53.021
3-211              53.022
3-212              53.007
3-213              53.035
3-214              53.036
3-215              53.037
3-216              53.050
3-217              53.051
3-218              53.052
3-219              53.053
3-220              53.054
3-221              53.055
3-222              53.056
3-223              53.070
3-224              53.071
3-225              53.072
3-226              53.073
3-227              53.090
3-228              53.091
3-229              53.092
3-230              53.105
3-231              53.106
3-232              53.008
3-233              53.107
3-234              53.999
3-301              50.01
3-303              50.03
3-501              32.05
3-601              50.99
4-201              51.01
4-202              51.02
4-203              51.03
4-204              51.04
4-205              51.05
4-304              90.17
4-306              90.19
4-401              90.99
5-103              70.03
5-201              70.35
5-202              70.36
5-203              70.36
5-401              70.99
6-101              91.20
6-102              91.21
6-104              91.46
6-109              91.25
6-110              91.25
6-111              91.25
6-112              91.25
6-118              91.47
6-120              91.48
6-121              91.26
6-122              91.27
6-123              91.28
6-124              91.30
6-129              91.31
6-130              91.07
6-201              91.01
6-309              130.01
6-310              130.22
6-312              130.20
6-313              130.21
6-401              91.99
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.02
7-103              92.03
7-104              92.04
7-201              92.99
8-203              152.36
8-501              153.01
8-502              153.02
8-503              153.03
8-504              153.04
8-505              153.05
8-506              153.06
8-507              153.07
8-508              153.08
8-509              153.09
8-510              153.10
8-511              153.10
8-512              153.11
8-513              153.12
8-514              153.13
8-601              152.99
9-101              150.02
9-301              150.01
9-401              150.99
10-114             111.39
10-119             111.43
10-120             111.03
10-301             TSO Table I
10-302             TSO Table I
10-303             TSO Table I
10-304             TSO Table I
10-501             111.99
11-101             154.15
11-102             154.16
11-103             154.17
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1-516    6-6-2000    31.54
1-517    6-6-2000    31.55
1-702    6-6-2000    33.06
1-710    6-6-2000    33.10
1-808    6-6-2000    34.46
1-814    6-6-2000    34.33
                     10.99;
                     32.99;
                     50.99;
                     70.99;
1-1001   6-6-2000    90.99;
                     91.99;
                     92.99;
                     111.99;
                     150.99;
                     152.99
10-120   6-6-2000    111.03
6-310    6-6-2000    130.22
6-312    6-6-2000    130.20
1-819    7-2-2002    34.08
1-825    7-2-2002    31.06
1-826    7-2-2002    34.09
9-102    7-2-2002    154.15
9-103    7-2-2002    154.16
9-104    7-2-2002    154.17
10-119   7-2-2002    130.21
3-120    4-1-2003    52.07
8-309    8-6-2003    TSO Table II
8-310    8-6-2003    TSO Table II
10-305   9-9-2003    TSO Table I
1-706    3-2-2004    33.05
1-811    3-2-2004    34.01
1-819    3-2-2004    34.08
4-203    3-2-2004    51.03
8-110    8-10-2004   TSO Table III
9-501    12-7-2004   150.03
2006-2   3-7-2006    91.32;
                     91.99
2006-3   4-4-2006    TSO Table I
                     51.01;
2006-7   6-6-2006    51.06—
                     51.14;
                     51.99
2006-8   8-10-2006   71.08;
                     71.99
2010-1   3-2-2010    TSO Table III
2012-7   7-10-2012   50.01
2015-1   5-5-2015    32.06
2017-1   9-5-2017    130.17
2020-1   2-11-2020   TSO Table III
2021-1   3-19-2021   154.01
2021-2   3-19-2021   154.02
2021-3   3-19-2021   52.18
2022-2   9-6-2022    TSO Table IV
                     151.01—
2022-3   10-4-2022   151.08;
                     151.99
2022-4   10-4-2022   72.01—
                     72.06
2022-6   11-1-2022   152.20
2023-1   1-3-2023    TSO Table IV
2023-4   12-5-2023   TSO Table III
                    
 
