PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-36 Supplement,
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 1004, passed 12- 17-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This Municipal Code of Plainview, Nebraska, 1975, contains all the
ordinances of the Municipality of a general nature. Certain ordinances which
are continued in force after this codification for the purpose of rights
acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities incurred, and actions
there for have been omitted from this publication.
   A Table of Contents appears after this page, and a complete index to the
subject matter included in the general chapters and sections herein will be
found at the end of this volume. Convenient cross-references to the Statutes of
Nebraska indicate the source of legislative power and supplement the text.
   The text of the Plainview Municipal Code, 1975, is arranged in the same
manner as the Revised Statutes of Nebraska. The number preceding the hyphen is
the chapter number; immediately following the hyphen is the article number; and
following that is the section number. Each section number is complete within
itself indicating the number of the chapter, article, and section.
CITY OFFICERS
of PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA
2025
*****
                  
Courtney Retzlaff Clerk/Treasurer
Jeremy Tarr       City Administrator
Curt Hart         City Superintendent
Kyle Petersen     City Attorney
Kristy Hallock    Police Chief
Josh Kounovsky    Fire Chief
                  
*****
CITY COUNCIL
Bob Smith, Mayor
Sarah Doty
Tyler Sanne
Jody Born
Corrine Janovec
*****
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL AND PERMANENT NATURE
of the
CITY OF PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA
ORDINANCE. NO. 271
   An ordinance of the City of Plainview, Nebraska, codifying the general
ordinances of the Municipality, repealing prior ordinances in conflict
herewith.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA,
   Section 1. Codification. The general ordinances of the Municipality of
Plainview, Nebraska, are hereby codified into eleven chapters and the articles
and sections thereunder, which are adopted and declared to be ordinances of
this Municipality.
   Section 2. Repeal of Prior Ordinances in Conflict. All ordinances and parts
of ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed and approved prior to the
passage and approval of this codification ordinance and in conflict with this
ordinance or with any of the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed:
Provided, that in construing the provisions of this ordinance the following
ordinances shall not be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature, to-wit:
   1.   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys,
   2.   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   3.   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
   4.   Ordinances granting any right, privilege, franchise, or license to
persons, firms, or corporations.
   5.   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   6.   Ordinances establishing grades.
   7.   Real Estate Transactions.
   8.   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
   Section 3. Exceptions. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2,
Ordinance No. 271 shall not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties,
forfeitures, or liabilities incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of
the provisions of such ordinances and parts thereof. Such ordinances above
repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the passage, approval
and publication of this general codification ordinance for the purpose of all
rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities, and actions therefor.
   Section 4. Defining Chapters, Articles, and Sections. The chapters,
articles, and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are declared to
be the chapters, articles, and sections of this general codification ordinance.
All ordinances hereafter passed by the local Governing Body of the Municipality
shall be numbered consecutively, beginning with 272.
   Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause, phrase, term, or provision of this ordinance should be declared invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this code, which will remain in full
force and effect, and the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to
be severable.
   Section 6. Blanket Penalty. Any person, his agents, or servants who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Municipal Code unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred
($100.00) dollars. Whoever aids, abets, procures, encourages, requests,
advises, or incites another to commit any act which is an offense under this
Code or under any other ordinance of the Municipality may be prosecuted and
punished as though fie were the principal offender.
   Section 7. General Definitions:
   1.   Person. Whenever used in this code, the word person shall include
natural persons, artificial persons, such as corporations, co-partnerships,
associations, and all aggregate organizations Of whatever character.
   2.   Gender and Number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender
may apply to, and include the feminine or neuter gender and all words importing
the plural may be applied to, and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All
words importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural
number.
   3.   Code, Ordinance, and Chapter, Municipal Code shall mean the General
Codification Ordinance No. 271. Ordinance and chapter are used synonymously
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
   4.   Wholesale Dealer. The words wholesale dealer or sellers of said product
at wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell
the said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to
consumers.
   5.   Municipal and Municipality. The words Municipal and Municipality
whenever used in this code mean the City of Plainview, Nebraska, a Municipal
Corporation.
   6.   Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
   7.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Administrative Official of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   8.   Municipal Police, Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   Section 8. Time. Whenever words fixing or importing time or the hour of the
day are used in this Code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
   Section 9. Construction of Chapters, Articles, and Sections. For purposes of
construction each chapter contained and arranged in this Code shall be
considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for convenience tinder
the General Codification Ordinance No. 271, each section appearing in the
several chapters of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct unit
of legislation germane to the chapter or article under which it is grouped and
each article appearing in the said chapters shall be considered as a group of
legislative units germane to the chapter wherein it is placed. Any chapter,
article, or section duly enacted by the Governing Body of the Municipality and
included in this Code, and any other independent ordinance, chapter, article,
section, or subsection of an ordinance duly enacted shall be altered, amended,
or revised only by the complete nullification and repeal of such ordinance,
chapter, article, section, or subsection and by the substitution of a new
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection containing the entire
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection as amended, altered, or
revised.
   Section 10. Publication and Distribution. This code was printed in book form
under the direction of the Governing Body, and shall be distributed as they may
see fit. (Ref 17-613, 17-614 RS Neb.)
   Section 11. When Operative. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall
take effect from and after its passage, approval and publication according to
law.
Passed and approved February 3, 1976.
                                          Myron Kuhl
                                          Mayor
Jayne Gentzler
Municipal Clerk
(SEAL)
ORDINANCE NO. 666
AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO SUPPLEMENTS TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE; TO AUTHORIZE THE
CODIFIER TO MAKE FORMAL NONSUBSTANTIVE CHANGES IN ORDINANCES AND PARTS OF
ORDINANCES INCLUDED IN THE SUPPLEMENT AS NECESSARY TO EMBODY THEM INTO A
UNIFIED CODE; TO REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND SECTIONS; TO PROVIDE AN
EFFECTIVE DATE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PLAINVIEW,
NEBRASKA:
Section 1.  SUPPLEMENTATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE. When preparing a supplement to
the Municipal Code, the codifier (meaning the person, agency, or organization
authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in
ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to
embody them into a unified Code. For example, the codifer may:
1. Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and subdivisions;
2.   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections and
other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make changes
in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
3.   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
4.   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this
chapter," "this article," "this section," etc., as may be appropriate, or to
"sections _________ to ________" (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the Code);
5.   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to Code sections such as
"section __________" or "sections _________ to ________" which are not filled
in prior to adoption of an ordinance;
6.   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical errors,
correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or decapitalize
words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted usage or for
consistency with other provisions of the Code;
7.   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the Code; and
8.   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate ordinance
material into the Code while preserving the original meaning of the ordinance
sections.
   In no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of
ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code
and not repealed by any ordinance.
Section 2. Any other ordinance or section passed and approved prior to passage,
approval, and publication or posting of this ordinance and in conflict with its
provisions is repealed.
Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after
its passage, approval, and publication or posting as required by law.
   Passed and approved this 8 day of July, 1997.
Michael Naprstek
Mayor
(SEAL)
Jayne Gentzler_______
Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 922
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA ADOPTING THE STATE LAW CHANGES MADE BY THE LEGISLATURE
WHICH ARE SPECIFIC AND MANDATORY AND NECESSARY TO BRING THE CITY ORDINANCES AND
CODE SECTIONS INTO CONFORMITY WITH STATE LAW AND AMENDING RESTATING, REVISING,
UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH
THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR
THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1.   That the Code of Ordinances of the City of Plainview shall
continue in full force and effect and shall hereby adopt and incorporate by
reference certain State law changes made by the Legislature which are specific
and mandatory and necessary to bring the City Ordinances and Code sections into
conformity with State law.
   Section 2.   The State law changes identified above affect the following
chapters of the City Code of Ordinances:
      1.   To amend §1-101 Powers and Duties.
      2.   To amend §1-708 Elections; Filing Fee.
      3.   To amend §1-710 Elections; Petition, Write-In, and Other Candidates
for General Election Ballot; Procedure.
      4.   To amend §10-500 Levies Authorized.
      5.   To amend §10-117 Alcoholic Beverages; Hours of Sale.
      6.   To create §10-128 Credit Sales Prohibited.
      7.   To create §10-702 Tobacco; Use by Minors, Sale to Minors,
Misrepresentation by Minor.
      8.   To amend §10-701 Tobacco; License for Sale; Application; Contents;
Fee.
      9.   To amend §6-340 Misdemeanors; Abandoned Automobiles
   Section 3.   All other portions of the code book not identified in Section 2
herein remain unaffected and shall continue in full force and effect as
currently written.
   Section 4.   All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in
this supplement to the Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and
after the effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and re-
ordained in whole or in part in this supplement to the Code of Ordinances;
provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall this repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by this supplement to the Code of
Ordinances.
   Section 5.   This ordinance adopting the supplement to the Code of
Ordinances shall be a sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it
and not previously published according to law. At least one copy of this
supplement to the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in the office of the City
Clerk and available for inspection by members of the public during the hours
the office is open for the ordinary transaction of business. The Clerk shall
file a copy of this supplement to the Code of Ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 6.   This ordinance adopting this supplement to the Code of
Ordinances shall take effect from and after its passage, approval, and
publication or posting as required by law.
   Passed and approved this 10th day of February, 2015
                                       Daren Seip /s/
                                       Mayor
(Seal)
Kelly Pendergast /s/
Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 932
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA ADOPTING THE STATE LAW CHANGES MADE BY THE LEGISLATURE
WHICH ARE SPECIFIC AND MANDATORY AND NECESSARY TO BRING THE CITY ORDINANCES AND
CODE SECTIONS INTO CONFORMITY WITH STATE LAW AND AMENDING RESTATING, REVISING,
UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH
THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR
THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
PLAINVIEW, NEBRASKA:
   Section 1.   That the Code of Ordinances of the City of Plainview shall
continue in full force and effect and shall hereby adopt and incorporate by
reference certain State law changes made by the Legislature which are specific
and mandatory and necessary to bring the City Ordinances and Code sections into
conformity with State law.
   Section 2.   The State law changes identified above affect the following
chapters of the City Code of Ordinances:
      1.   To add §4-402 Abatement of Nuisance.
      2.   To amend §10-103 Alcoholic Beverages; Retail Establishments;
Location
      3.   To amend §6-206 Abandonment, Neglect, and Mistreatment
      4.   To amend §6-345 Criminal Mischief
      5.   To amend §6-101 License and Tax Required; Exemption; Tags
      6.   To add §5-710 Regulation of Snow, Ice, and other Encroachments
      7.   To add §10-128 Keg Sales; Requirements; Prohibited Acts
      8.   To add §5-102 Motor Vehicle; Definition
      9.   To add §8-107 Regulation of Obstructions
      10.   To amend §8-112 Municipal Property; Public Works Involving
Architecture or Engineering; Requirements
      11.   To amend §1-716 Recall Procedure
      12.   To amend §1-826 Revision of Budget
      13.   To amend §4-306 Dead or Diseased Trees
      14.   To amend §3-1101 Utilities; Discontinuance of Service; Notice
Procedure
      15.   To amend §1-105 Vacancy; General Provisions
      16.   To amend §6-337 Weeds; Litter; Stagnant Water
   Section 3.    All other portions of the code book not identified in Section
2 herein remain unaffected and shall continue in full force and effect as
currently written.
   Section 4.   All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in
this supplement to the Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and
after the effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and re-
ordained in whole or in part in this supplement to the Code of Ordinances;
provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall this repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by this supplement to the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 5.   This ordinance adopting the supplement to the Code of
Ordinances shall be a sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it
and not previously published according to law. At least one copy of this
supplement to the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in the office of the City
Clerk and available for inspection by members of the public during the hours
the office is open for the ordinary transaction of business. The Clerk shall
file a copy of this supplement to the Code of Ordinances with the County Court.
   Section 6.   This ordinance adopting this supplement to the Code of
Ordinances shall take effect from and after its passage, approval, and
publication or posting as required by law.
      Passed and approved this 8th day of December, 2015
                                                                                 
                                       Mayor
(Seal)
                                         
Clerk
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
Article
   
1.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
   
2.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
   
3.   BONDS AND OATH
   
4.   CORPORATE SEAL
   
5.   MEETINGS
   
6.   ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
   
7.   ELECTIONS
   
8.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
   
9.   COMPENSATION
   
10.   INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
   
11.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
   
12.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 1-101 CITY MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a majority vote of the City
Council or a majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council if
(a) the Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members being equally
divided or (b) a majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of
one or more City Council members. For purposes of such vote, the Mayor is
deemed to be a member of the City Council.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the City, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the City and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Ref. 17-110 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven (7) calendar days after the meeting.
If the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of
the Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order,
bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the
allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required
by this section, the measure shall become effective without his or her
signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or
any claims bill, and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items
vetoed may be passed by the Council over the veto as in other cases. (Ref. 17-
111 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the City. (Ref. 17-112 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the City to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office. (Ref. 17-113 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of
the City, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and
regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or
her by ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the City. (Ref. 17-114 RS Neb.)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the City. (Ref. 17-117 RS Neb.)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the City.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk's minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 356, 10/13/80; 920, 2/26/14; 922, 2/10/15; 942, 2/13/18;
995, 4/9/24)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see sections 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604 RS Neb.
§ 1-102 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one (1) of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one (1) of its own
body to occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the Municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor. (Ref. 17-148 RS Neb.)
§ 1-103 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four (4)
year term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the Municipal
Government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions. (Ref. 17-
103, 17-104 RS Neb.)
§ 1-104 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   City Councilmen of this Municipality shall take office, and commence their
duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election. The
newly elected Councilmen who have qualified as prescribed by law, together with
the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular
meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmen-elect
who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the Municipality shall be represented by at least two (2) Councilmembers. No
person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his election an actual
resident of the ward for which he is qualified and should any City
Councilmember move from the ward from which he was elected, his office shall
thereby become vacant. (Ref. 17-104 RS Neb.)
§ 1-105 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in section 32-560 RS Neb. except as provided in section 32-561
RS Neb.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D), vacancies
in municipal elected offices shall be filled by the Governing Body for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of
the minutes of that meeting. The Governing Body shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Municipality or by posting in three (3) public places in
the Municipality the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Governing Body or
place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next regular
meeting at which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or
special meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent, or within four (4)
weeks after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The
Governing Body shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of
the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor
shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails
to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Governing
Body shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the
vacancy is filled. All members of the Governing Body present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Governing Body who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Governing Body shall have the same
rights, including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Mayor and Governing Body may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a
City elected office as provided in division (B), call a special election to
fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Governing Body, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special municipal
election to fill those vacancies. (Ref. 32-569 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos.
425, 9/11/84; 535, 2/12/91; 770, 6/11/02; 1-105, 12/8/15)
§ 1-106 MAYOR; ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the City. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.  (Ref. 32-533 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1-106, 5/
8/12)
§ 1-107 ELECTED OFFICIALS; RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (1) The Mayor and members of the Council shall hold no other elective or
appointive office or employment with the City.
   (2)   For purposes of this section, (a) elective office means any office
which has candidates nominated or elected at the time of a statewide primary
election, any office which has candidates nominated at the time of a statewide
primary election and elected at the time of a statewide general election, any
office which has candidates elected at the time of a statewide general
election, any office which has candidates nominated or elected at a city or
village election, and any office created by an act of the Legislature which has
candidates elected at an election and includes an office which is filled at an
election held in conjunction with the annual meeting of a public body created
by an act of the Legislature and (b) high elective office means a member of the
Legislature, an elective office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or
Article VII, section 3 or 10, of the Constitution of Nebraska, or a county,
city, or school district elective office.
   (3)   No candidate for member of the Legislature or an elective office
described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII, section 3 or 10, of
the Constitution of Nebraska shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to
petition on the ballot as a candidate, to accept a nomination by a political
party or by party convention, caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be
a declared write-in candidate for more than one elective office to be filled at
the same election except for the position of delegate to a county, state, or
national political party convention. No candidate for any other high elective
office shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition on the ballot as a
candidate, to accept a nomination by a political party or by party convention,
caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be declared a write-in candidate
for more than one high elective office to be filled at the same election.
   (4)   Except as provided in subsection (5) or (7) of this section, no person
shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or holding an elective
office for the reason that he or she has been elected or appointed to or holds
another elective office.
   (5)   No person serving as a member of the Legislature or in an elective
office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII, section 3 or
10, of the Constitution of Nebraska shall simultaneously serve in any other
elective office, except that such a person may simultaneously serve in another
elective office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the
annual meeting of a public body.
   (6)   Whenever an incumbent serving as a member of the Legislature or in an
elective office described in Article IV, section 1 or 20, or Article VII,
section 3 or 10, of the Constitution of Nebraska assumes another elective
office, except an elective office filled at an election held in conjunction
with the annual meeting of a public body, the office first held by the
incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (7)   No person serving in a high elective office shall simultaneously serve
in any other high elective office.
   (8)   Notwithstanding subsections (5) through (7) of this section, any
person holding more than one high elective office upon September 13, 1997,
shall be entitled to serve the remainder of all terms for which he or she was
elected or appointed. (Ref. 17-108.02, 32-109, 32-603, 32-604 RS Neb.)  (Ord.
No. 534, 2/12/91) (Amended by Ord. No. 698, 8/11/98)
§ 1-108 CITY COUNCIL; QUALIFICATIONS; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE.
   If the City operates under a City Manager plan, members of the City Council
shall be residents and registered voters of the City and shall hold no other
employment with the City. Any Council member
2015 S-24
who ceases to possess any of the qualifications required by this section or who
has been convicted of a felony or of any public offense involving the violation
of the oath of office of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit
such office. (Ref. 19-613 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1-108, 2/12/13)
2015 S-24
ARTICLE 2: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 1-201 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor's term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   The City may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Ref. 17-604 RS Neb.)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
City ordinances and state law.  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 302, 11/14/77; 667, 7/8/
97; 1-201, 5/8/12; 907, 1/8/12)
§ 1-202 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The Governing Body may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Councilmember, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments
may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time. The city manager/
administrator in a city under the city manager/administrator plan of government
as provided by law may in his or her discretion combine and merge any elective
or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except mayor and council member, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to
be separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall  be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged or combined offices or employments or
offices and employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided
by law for the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or
employments so merged and combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers. (Ref. 17-
108.02 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 426, 9/11/84; 536, 2/12/91)
§ 1-203 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the City. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of §
1-204(A)(3). (Ref. 17-605 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within thirty (30) days after any
meeting of the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the
meeting, and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose
of the claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of
all payroll claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15
of each year, the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or
hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job
title published shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions
of the position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates
provided for in section 23-122 RS Neb. (Ref. 19-1102 RS Neb.)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one (1) legal
newspaper of general circulation in the City. If no legal newspaper is
published in the City, then the publication shall be made in one (1) legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
City is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the City. (Ref. 19-1103 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy City public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator. (Ref. 184701 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in sections 84-712 through 84-712.09 RS Neb.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the City kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the City as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to section
84-712(2) RS Neb. He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at
the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the
date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the City, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the City ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
City officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the City and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the City. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the City, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five (5) days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 554, 2/9/93; 920, 2/26/14; 962, 3/9/21; 976, 3/8/
22)
§ 1-204 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the City. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within twenty (20) days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the City, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
section 19-1101 RS Neb. with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that
year and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts. (Ref. 17-
606 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within sixty
(60) days after the close of the City fiscal year a statement of the receipts
and expenditures of funds of the City for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by sections 16-318(3) or
17-606(2) RS Neb. Not more than the legal rate provided for in section 33-141
RS Neb. shall be charged and paid for such publication. (Ref. 19-1101 RS Neb.)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one (1) legal newspaper of general
circulation in the City. If no legal newspaper is published in the City, then
such publication shall be made in one (1) legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the City is located. (Ref. 19-
1103 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in sections 77-2201
through 77-2215 RS Neb. (Ref. 77-2201 RS Neb.)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed. (Ref. 77-2202 RS
Neb.)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office. (Ref. 77-2209 RS Neb.)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Ref. 77-2210 RS Neb.)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid. (Ref. 77-2212 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in sections 84-712 through 84-712.09 RS Neb..
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the City separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the City, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 771, 6/11/02; 920, 2/26/14; 962, 3/9/21)
§ 1-205 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 771, 6/11/02)
§ 1-205.01 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CONSOLIDATED OFFICES; CITY TREASURER AND CITY
CLERK.
   The offices of the Plainview City Clerk and the Plainview City Treasurer
shall be consolidated, and the individual holding the office of City Clerk
shall administer the duties of both offices. (Ord. No. 461, 10/14/86)
§ 1-206 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S ANNUAL REPORT.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 771, 6/11/02)
§ 1-207 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; ASSISTANT TREASURER OF HOSPITAL FINANCE.
   The Mayor and Council hereby find and determine that in order to comply with
the requirements of Ordinance No. 258 as passed by the Mayor and Council of the
City of Plainview on May 6, 1974 it is necessary to provide the City Treasurer
with additional manpower resources.
   There is hereby created the office of Assistant Treasurer of Hospital
Finance. Said office shall continue so long as there are revenue bonds
outstanding under said Ordinance No. 258.
   The powers and duties of the office of Assistant Treasurer of Hospital
Finance shall be to assist the City Treasurer in performing the administrative
duties imposed upon the City Treasurer pursuant to Ordinance No. 258. In
performing said duties the Assistant Treasurer of Hospital Finance shall be
supervised by and be responsible to the City Treasurer.
   The Assistant Treasurer of Hospital Finance shall be required to furnish a
bond securing the faithful performance of his duties an amount not less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) with a corporate surety to be
approved by the Mayor. The premium for such bond shall be payable from the
Operation and Maintenance Account established for the Hospital by Ordinance No
258, as an expense of operating and maintaining the Hospital.
   The Hospital Administrator is hereby appointed to fill the office of
Assistant Treasurer of Hospital Finance to serve without compensation other
than as Administrator of the Plainview Public Hospital. His term in said office
shall be for so long as he shall be Administrator of the Plainview Public
Hospital, but subject to termination at any time by the Mayor and Council of
the City of Plainview. (Amended by Ord. No. 321, 11/13/78)
§ 1-208 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor may appoint an individual by and with the consent of a majority of
the City Council, to serve as a full time City Administrator. In the event that
a full time Administrator is appointed, he shall be the administrative head of
the Municipal government under the direction and control of the Mayor and City
Council and shall be responsible to the Mayor and City Council for the
efficient conduct of his office. The office of the City Administrator may not
be held by the Mayor. The appointed Administrator may concurrently hold any
other appointed office provided for in this Article.
   In the event that a full time Administrator is not appointed by the Mayor:
      1.   The duties assigned by this Code to a City administrator shall be
performed by the Mayor and Council of the City, and such other officers or
employees of the City as are designated herein or in the City's Personnel
Manual; and
      2.   The Mayor shall be responsible for coordinating the work of the
various departments and employees of the City, and shall provide a brief report
at each Council meeting on the activities of the past month and the needs and
plans for future work.
   The duties of the City Administrator (or such individual appointed or
specified as set out above) shall be all those duties assigned by this Code,
together with the following duties:
      1.   He shall make and keep up to date an inventory of all property, real
and personal, owned by the Municipality.
      2.   He shall act as purchasing agent for the purchase of all supplies,
goods, wares and merchandise, equipment and material which may be required for
the various departments, divisions or services of the Municipality.
      3.   He shall keep the Mayor and Council fully advised as to the
financial condition and needs of the Municipality and shall be responsible for
and prepare the annual estimate of expenditures for presentation to the Mayor
and Council prior to the passage of the annual appropriation ordinance.
      4.   To serve as public relations officer of the Municipal government,
and in such capacity to endeavor to investigate and adjust all complaints filed
against any employee, department, division or service thereof and cooperate
with all community organizations whose aim and purpose is to advance the best
interests of the Municipality and its people and to attend meetings of such
organizations if in the judgment of the Administrator such attendance is
necessary and desirable.
      5.   To attend all meetings of the Council with the duty of reporting any
matter concerning Municipal affairs under his supervision or direction and to
attend such other meetings of the Municipal Departments and officials as his
duties may require.
      6.   To analyze the functions, duties and activities of the various
departments, divisions and services of the Municipal government and of all
employees thereof, and to make his recommendations regarding the same to the
Mayor and Council.
      7.   To carry out the Mayor and/or Council's recommendations and
operations of the various departments.
      8.   To procure facts and submit long range improvements to the Mayor and
Council.
      9.   Recommend to the Mayor and Council the appointment and dismissal of
all department heads over which he exercises jurisdiction. Appointment or
dismissal of department heads will be made upon the recommendation of the Mayor
and confirmation by the Council. The City Administrator may appoint and dismiss
all subordinate employees of the Municipality, as well as provide for the
transfer of such employees from one department to another except those
employees covered under the Civil Service Act of the State.
      10.   The City Administrator shall have the duty and the right to
investigate and make recommendations to the Mayor and City Council regarding
duties and activities of any employee of the Municipality covered under the
Civil Service Act of the State and recommend to the Mayor and Council the
promotion, demotion, suspension, transfer or discharge of such employees.
      11.   Administer and be responsible for all departments and divisions of
the Municipal government, which are under the Mayor's and Council's direction,
including the Board of Public Works and any public utilities hereafter acquired
by the Municipality and including Fire and Police Departments, except insofar
as such jurisdiction and administration conflicts with the Civil Service Law
pertaining to such Fire and Police Departments. The office of the Municipal
Attorney and Municipal Physician shall not come under the administration and
responsibility of the City Administrator, said Administrator, however, to be
available to assist these offices in any administrative matter that may arise
and those officers in turn shall be available to assist these offices in any
administrative matter that may arise and those officers in turn shall be
available to assist the City Administrator in the discharge of his duties.
      12.   Recommend to the Mayor and Council for adoption such measures and
ordinances as are deemed necessary or expedient.
      13.   Prepare and recommend to the Mayor and Council a classification and
compensation plan.
      14.   Make investigations into the affairs of the Municipality and any
department or division thereof, and any contract, or the proper performance of
any obligations pertaining to the Municipality.
      15.   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, streets and
other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction of the Mayor
and Council.
      16.   Prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council as of the end of the
fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the Municipality for the preceding year.
      17.   Keep the insurable property of the Municipality appropriately
insured.
      18.   Service in any appointed office or head of department within the
Municipal government if the need arises and when appointed thereto by the Mayor
and Council and to hold and perform the duties thereof at the pleasure of the
Mayor.
      19.   The City Administrator shall have the duty to keep open his office
for public affairs during days and hours set by the Mayor and Council.
      20.   Perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
delegated to him from time to time by ordinances or resolutions of the Council;
and where action of the Council is not required such duties and powers as may
be prescribed by the Mayor.
   The salary of the City Administrator shall be fixed by ordinance of the
Council.
   The City Administrator in the discharge of his duties shall have the right
to expend an amount not to exceed the limits set forth in the applicable State
law, pertaining to Cities of the Second Class, when entering into contracts for
Municipal work and improvements or purchase of equipment, or any lesser amounts
set by the City Council, without advertising for bids and, within any dollar
limitation as set by the City Council to make any contract on behalf of the
Municipality for general purchases, maintenances and improvements, the
expenditure limitation herein to apply to all departments of the Municipality.
   The Administrator shall devote his entire time, attention and energies to
the affairs of the Municipality and shall not, during the term of his office or
employment, be engaged in any other business activity whether or not such
business activity is pursued for gain, profit or other pecuniary advantage.
   The Administrator is not authorized to obligate the Municipality for any
expense or expenses for entertainment, travel, or similar items without the
prior approval of the Mayor and Council. In the event of the authorization by
the Mayor and Council to the Administrator to incur such expenses, the
Administrator will be reimbursed by the Municipality from time to time upon
submission of an itemized account of such expenditures.
   The Administrator shall be entitled each year to a vacation based upon the
number of days granted by the Municipality to other employees of the
Municipality.
   If the Administrator is unable to perform his services by reason of illness
or incapacity, the compensation otherwise payable to him during the continued
period of such illness shall be based upon the policy adopted by the
Municipality then in effect with reference to other employees of the
Municipality. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Municipality
may terminate such employment at any time after the Administrator shall be
absent from his employment for whatever cause for a continuous period of more
than three (3) months. The City Administrator may be removed by the Mayor.
(Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 440, 10/9/84)
§ 1-209 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and
actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the
City, or that may be ordered by the Governing Body. When requested by the
Governing Body, he shall attend meetings of the Governing Body, and shall
advise any Municipal Official in all matters of law in which the interests of
the Municipality may be involved. He shall draft such ordinances, bonds,
contracts, and other writings as may be required in the administration of the
affairs of the Municipality. He shall examine all bonds, contracts, and
documents on which the Governing Body will be required to act, and attach
thereto a brief statement in writing to all such instruments, and documents as
to whether, or not, the document is in legal, and proper form. Without
direction, he shall appear, and prosecute all cases for violation of the
Municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and are pending in any higher
court. He shall also examine, when requested to do so by the Governing Body,
the ordinance records, and advise, and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as
may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in the
passage of each ordinance to insure that they will be valid, and subsisting
local laws in so far as their passage, and approval are concerned. The
Governing Body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal Attorney for
legal services on such terms as the Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney
may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as may be necessary
out of the funds of the Municipality. (Ref. 17-610 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord.
No. 316, 5/8/78)
§ 1-210 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
   The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
Municipality, and perform the duties devolving upon him as the medical advisor
of the said board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted against
the Municipality, the Municipal Physician shall immediately investigate the
said injuries, the extent thereof, and the circumstances. He shall then report
the results of his investigation  with the name of the party injured, and all
other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter. He shall make all
physical examinations, and necessary laboratory tests incident thereto, and
issue such health certificates as are required by ordinance. For the purpose of
making examinations of the sanitary conditions of the property, and the state
of health of the inhabitants therein, he shall have the right at all reasonable
hours to go upon, and enter all premises, buildings, or other structures in the
Municipality. He shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by
the laws of the State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the Municipality. When
ordered to do so by the Governing Body he shall disinfect, or fumigate the
premises, or persons in or about the premises, when the premises are
quarantined, and to call upon indigent sick persons, and perform other
professional services at the direction of the Governing Body. The Municipal
Physician shall receive as compensation for his services such sum as the
Governing Body may from time to time set. He shall receive no compensation for
his services as a member of the Municipal Board of Health. (Ref. 17-121 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-211 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   Chief shall direct the police work of the Municipality and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He shall act as Health
Inspector, and Building Inspector, except in the event the Municipality
appoints another person. He shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of Municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary
reports required by the Municipal ordinances, or the laws of the State of
Nebraska. (Ref. 17-107, 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 1-212 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1) The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted, or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) of this
section. A police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the
City Council such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a
hearing, the City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a
procedure for such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of
the Police Chief, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with section 17-107 RS Neb. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty
of an officer by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by
this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of
orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the
public, or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a
physically present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public, or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(Ref. 81-1438 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. No. 976, 3/8/22)
§ 1-213 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of
fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable substances; the
installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire extinguishing
equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of all premises
requiring adequate fire escapes. He shall within two (2) days investigate the
cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his jurisdiction. He
shall, on or before the first (1st) day in April and October of each year,
cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk, and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
The Fire Chief, or his assistant in charge of operations at a fire may command
the services of any person present at any fire in extinguishing the same or in
the removal, and protection of property. Failure to obey such an order shall be
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to
enter at all reasonable hours into buildings, and upon all premises within his
jurisdiction for the purpose of examining the same for fire hazards, and
related dangers. (Ref. 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 1-214 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Governing Body may employ a Special Engineer to make any particular
estimate, survey, or other work. The Special Engineer shall make a record of
the minutes of his surveys and all other work done for the Municipality. He
shall, when directed by the Governing Body, accurately make all plats,
sections, profiles, and maps as may be necessary in the judgment of the
Governing Body. He shall, upon request of the Governing Body, make estimates of
the costs of labor and material which may be done or furnished by contract with
the Municipality, and make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary
for the establishment of grades, bridges, or culverts and for the building,
constructing, or repairing of any public improvement of the Municipality. All
records of the Special Engineer shall be public records which shall belong to
the Municipality, and shall be turned over to his successor. He shall, when
directed by the Governing Body, inspect all works of public improvement, and if
found to be properly done, shall accept the same, and report his acceptance to
the Governing Body. He shall estimate the cost of all proposed Municipal
utilities and public improvements, together with any extensions thereof which
the Governing Body may propose to construct or improve. (Ref. 17-405, 17-568,
17-919 RS Neb.)
§ 1-215 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Mayor, the City Administrator is hereby designated as Zoning
Inspector.
§ 1-216 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR.
   Pursuant to Chapter 81, Article 8, of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, the
Governing Body may appoint a Civil Defense Director to establish and implement
a civil defense organization in accordance with the state civil defense plan
and program. The term of office shall be one (1) year, unless sooner removed by
the Mayor. Appointment of a Civil Defense Director shall be made during the
month of December. (Ord. No. 571, 12/14/93)
§ 1-217 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; ASSISTANT TREASURER OF MANOR FINANCE.
   The powers and duties of the office of Assistant Treasurer of Manor Finance
shall be to assist the City Treasurer in performing the administrative duties
imposed upon the City Treasurer. In performing said duties the Assistant
Treasurer of Manor Finance shall be supervised by and be responsible to the
City Treasurer.
   The Assistant Treasurer of Manor Finance shall be required to furnish a bond
securing the faithful performance of his duties in an amount not less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) with a corporate surety to be
approved by the Mayor. The premium for such bond shall be payable from the
Operation and Maintenance Account established for the Manor, as an expense of
operating and maintaining the Manor.
   The Manor Administrator is hereby appointed to fill the office of Assistant
Treasurer of Manor Finance to serve without compensation other than
Administrator of the Plainview Manor. His/her term in said office shall be for
so long as he/she shall be Administrator of the Plainview Manor, but subject to
termination at any time by the Mayor and Council of the City of Plainview.
(Ord. No. 577, 7/12/94)
ARTICLE 3: BONDS AND OATH
§ 1-301 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The City may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage. (Ref. 17-604 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the City shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the City in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The Municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required. (Ref. 11-104 RS Neb.)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk's office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten (10) days before
the first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the
election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within thirty (30) days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and City officers,
within thirty (30) days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which
they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska. (Ref. 11-105 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All official bonds of City officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two (2) sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the County in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a City officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two (2) or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this State shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a City
officer. (Ref. 11-109 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases. (Ref.
11-110 RS Neb.)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved. (Ref. 11-111 RS Neb.)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds. (Ref. 11-112 RS Neb.)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval. (Ref. 11-113 RS Neb.)
   (I)   No City official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required. (Ref. 11-114 RS Neb.)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
(10) days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or
before the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the
bond within ten (10) days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials
or before the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause
is not shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto
become vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by
election or appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the
same office. (Ref. 11-115 RS Neb.)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided. (Ref. 11-116 RS Neb.)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten (10) days from the time at
which his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified. (Ref. 11-117 RS
Neb.)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two (2)
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies. (Ref. 11-118 RS Neb.)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
City, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 466,
1/13/87; 902, 8/15/12; 920, 2/26/14)
§ 1-302 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the Municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
"I                                                           do solemnly swear
that I will support the Constitution of the United States andthe Constitution
of the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely,
and without mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
___________________________, according to law, and to the best of my ability.
And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and that during
such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the over throw of the
government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So help
me God."
(Ref. 11-101 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 4: CORPORATE SEAL
§ 1-401 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
    The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, ''City of
Plainview, Corporate Seal, Plainview, Nebraska.'' The Municipal Clerk shall
affix an impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses,
permits, ordinances, and all other official papers issued by order of the
Governing Body and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-502 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 5: MEETINGS
§ 1-501 MEETINGS; DEFINED.
   Meetings, as used in this Article shall mean all regular, special, or called
meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of briefing,
discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the taking of
any action. (Ref. 84-1409(2) RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 412, 12/13/83)
§ 1-502 MEETINGS; PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   A.   Public Body as used in this Article shall mean:
      1.   The Governing Body of the Municipality,
      2.   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law, and
      3.   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
   B.   This Article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body. (Ref. 84-1409(1) RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
412, 12/13/83; 555, 2/9/93)
§ 1-503 MEETINGS; OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act. (Ref.
84-1408 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and
to the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body's jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper's web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three (3) conspicuous public places in
the City. The notice shall be posted in the same three (3) places for each
meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than twenty-four (24) hours before the
scheduled commencement of the meeting or forty-eight (48) hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the
corporate limits of the City. The public body shall have the right to modify
the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)  
(Amended by Ord. No. 412, 12/13/83; 962, 3/9/21)
§ 1-504 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of
this section.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
      (1)   The protection of the public interest or
      (2)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the members of the
public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be recorded in the
minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. (Ref. 84-1410 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. Nos. 412, 12/
13/83; 556, 2/9/93; 832, 2/8/05) 
§ 1-504.05   MEETINGS; PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this Article or the Open Meetings
Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social gathering,
email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the requirements of this Article or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power. (Ref. 84-1410
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 832, 2/8/05)
§ 1-505 MEETINGS; EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment. The provisions of section 1-508 of this Article
shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes of
such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any formal
action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no later
than the end of the next regular business day. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. No. 412, 12/13/83)
§ 1-506 MEETINGS; MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten (10) working days or prior to the next
convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the City may have an
additional ten (10) working days if the employee responsible for writing or
keeping the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.  (Ref. 84-
1413 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 985, 3/14/23)
§ 1-507 MEETINGS; VOTES.
   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record shall
state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by secret
ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be recorded in
the minutes. (Ref. 17-616, 84-1413 RS Neb.)
§ 1-508 MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the Secretary, or
other designee of each public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting, and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)
§ 1-509 MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to section 84-1410 RS Neb., may be videotaped, televised,
photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a
tape recorder, a camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or
sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held
by virtual conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak
at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of
section 84-1412 RS Neb. are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one (1) copy of all reproducible
written material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or
electronic form. Public bodies shall make available at least one (1) current
copy of the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information.   (Ref.
84-1412 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 412, 12/13/83; 451, 10/8/85; 976, 3/8/
22)
§ 1-510 MEETINGS; GOVERNING BODY. 
(Repealed by Ord. No. 452, 10/8/85)
§ 1-511 MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the Governing Body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk, the Mayor, and such other Municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the Municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
§ 1-512 MEETINGS; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: The Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held and the outgoing officers  and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his successor in office all
property, records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same. (Ref. 17-107.02(9)
RS Neb.)
§ 1-513 MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the City on the first (1st) regular meeting in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the City to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as ''President of the Council.'' The Mayor shall
then nominate his candidates for appointive offices. He shall then proceed with
the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every
member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer
elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first (1st) regular meeting in
December following his election. All appointive officers shall qualify within
two (2) weeks following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who
is not required to give bond shall consist in his subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the
State of Nebraska, the laws of the Municipality and to perform faithfully and
impartially the duties of his office, said oath to be filed in the office of
the Municipal Clerk. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the
required bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, with the
oath endorsed thereon.
§ 1-514 MEETINGS; COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (1)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting place of
the Municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second (2nd) Tuesday of
each month at the hour of Six-Thirty (6:30) o'clock P.M.
   (2)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at such times as
the Council may provide by ordinance. A majority of all the members elected to
the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but
a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members. When the City Council consists of four (4) members as
established by ordinance or home rule charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a
member of the City Council for purposes of establishing a quorum when the
Mayor's presence is necessary to establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is
required by law, an affirmative vote of at least one-half (1/2) of the elected
members shall be required for the transaction of any business. (Ref. 17-105 RS
Neb.)
   (3)   (a)   The Mayor or any three (3) Councilmembers shall have power to
call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk. (Ref.
17-106 RS Neb.)
      (b)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (4)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
(2) members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be
sent for and compelled to attend.
   (5)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.  
(Ord. No. 452, 10/8/85) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 636, 2/13/96; 688, 10/9/97; 714,
9/10/98; 722, 4/8/99; 729, 9/14/99; 734, 4/13/00; 947, 1/8/19; 962, 3/9/21)
§ 1-515 [RESERVED].
§ 1-516 MEETINGS; VIDEO CONFERENCING, WHEN ALLOWED.    
(Repealed by Ord. No. 839, 2/8/05)
ARTICLE 6: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 1-601 ORDINANCES, RULES, AND RESOLUTIONS; GRANT OF POWER.
   The Governing Body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Nebraska, as may be
expedient for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the
Municipality and its trade, commerce, and manufactories. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 669, 7/8/97)
§ 1-602 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in either of
the following ways:
      1.   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may, in the
presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Council read
aloud the substance of his proposed ordinance and file a copy of the same with
the Municipal Clerk for future consideration;
      2.   Or with the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may present
his proposed ordinance to the Clerk who in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance
of the same and shall file the same for future consideration.
      3.   Or, copies of the proposed Ordinance shall be given to the Mayor and
Governing Body prior to introducing said Ordinance and then only the title
shall be required to be read. Copies of Ordinances introduced by this method
shall be available to any person attending the meeting.
(Amended by Ord. No. 313, 5/8/78)
§ 1-603 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by said resolutions or
motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote shall be required to
pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by
roll call vote. (Amended by Ord. No. 312, 5/8/78) 
§ 1-604 ORDINANCES; STYLE.
   The style of all Municipal ordinances shall be:
      "Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Plainview,
Nebraska:"
(Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-605 ORDINANCES; TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
§ 1-606 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS; READING; PASSAGE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation
or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence
of a majority of all elected members of the City Council. The Mayor may vote on
any such matter if (i) the Mayor's vote is required due to the City Council
members being equally divided or (ii) a majority vote of all the elected
members of the City Council cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or
abstention of one (1) or more City Council members. For purposes of such vote,
the Mayor is deemed to be a member of the City Council.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three (3) different days unless three-fourths (3/4) of the City Council vote
to suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended (i) for
any ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries
for City Council election districts or wards or (ii) as otherwise provided by
law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths (3/4) of the City Council may require a reading of
any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in
this section. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public. (Ref. 17-616
RS Neb.)  
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 606, 2/14/95; 670, 7/8/97; 920, 2/26/14; 976, 3/8/22;
995, 4/9/24)
§ 1-607 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within fifteen (15) days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the City or, if no
paper is published in the City, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three (3) public places in the City; or
   (B)   In book, or pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 463, 11/11/86; 671, 7/8/97; 942,
2/13/18; 976, 3/8/22)
§ 1-607.1 ORDINANCES; NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the Municipality is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the Municipality, and if there
is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the Municipality, then
the Municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the County in which the Municipality
is located. If there is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in such
County, then the Municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement by
posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three (3) public places in
the Municipality for the same period of time the Municipality is required to
publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper. (Ord. No. 942, 2/13/
18)
§ 1-608 ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the Municipality from
the Muni- cipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was pub- lished, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-609 ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, an ordinance for
the government of the Municipality which has been adopted by the Governing Body
without submission to the voters of the Municipality shall not go into effect
until fifteen (15) days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (2)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three (3) of the most public
places in the Municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Governing Body, and
be entered of record on the Municipal Clerk's minutes. (Ref. 17-613, 19-3701 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 672, 7/8/97)
§ 1-610 ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed,  except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the Municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law. (Ref. 17-614 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 673, 7/8/97)
ARTICLE 7: ELECTIONS
§ 1-701 ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   All Municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if Municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All Municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election. (Ref. 32-556 RS Neb.)
   (B)   When the Municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act. Any other election held by the Municipality shall be held
as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code,
or bylaws of the Municipality. (Ref. 32-404 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos.
292, 10/10/77; 833, 2/8/05)
§ 1-701.05 ELECTIONS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the City, the number of officers to be elected,
the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. (Ref. 32-404 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 833, 2/8/05)
§ 1-702 ELECTIONS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   All elected officers of the Municipality shall serve a term of four (4)
years and until their successors are elected and have qualified. (Ref. 17-
107.02 (2) RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 378, 12/8/81)
§ 1-703 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two (2) for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required.  (Ref. 17-107.02(4) RS Neb.)
§ 1-704 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the general election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of an elective office,
the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between January
5 and July 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No incumbent who
resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or her term shall
file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All other
candidates shall file for office between January 5 and August 1 prior to the
date of the general election. (Ref. 32-606 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk. (Ref. 32-607 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 1-704, 5/8/12)
(Amended by Ord. No. 976, 3/8/22)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see 32-625 and 32-627 RS Neb.
   Withdrawal after filing, see 32-622 RS Neb.
§ 1-705 ELECTIONS; TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before the
canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be given
accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail. (Ref. 17-107.02
(6) RS Neb.)
§ 1-706 ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION, PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition, or write-
in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
   The County Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the general
election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes received
at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the name of the
candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing.
(Ref. 17-107.02(6)&(7) RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 377, 12/8/81)
§ 1-707 ELECTIONS; ELECTION TO TERMS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 377, 12/8/81)
§ 1-708 ELECTIONS; FILING FEE.
   (A)    Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
City office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the City. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to one percent (1%) of the annual salary as of
November 30 of the year preceding the election for the office for which he or
she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of three thousand dollars ($3,000)
used by a recipient in a planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Ref. 32-608 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 297, 10/10/77; 922, 2/10/15; 976,
3/8/22)
§ 1-709 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in section 77-3444 RS Neb., any issue to be
submitted to the registered voters at a special election by the City shall be
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or
before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held
by mail as provided in sections 32-952 through 32-959 RS Neb. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the City may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A City that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) of this section may cancel the special election if the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a
resolution adopted by the political subdivision canceling the special election
on or before the fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall
be effective after such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner,
the City shall be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the
canceled election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in
section 32-1202 RS Neb. associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A City that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2) of
this section may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
City withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot. (Ref. 32-405 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to 13-519 or 77-3444 RS Neb. to approve a property tax
levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation. (Ref. 32-405 RS Neb.)  (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 427, 9/11/84; 812, 3/9/04; 962, 3/9/21; 985, 3/14/23)
§ 1-710 ELECTIONS; PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL
ELECTION BALLOT; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
section 32-621 RS Neb. or by nomination by political party convention or
committee pursuant to sections 32-627 or 32-710 RS Neb.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under section 32-625(2) RS Neb. and the candidate files for the office
by petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in section 32-615 RS Neb., or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to section 32-710 RS Neb.
(Ref. 32-616 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of section
32-628 RS Neb. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and
address of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the
party affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be
filed with the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed
by registered voters residing in the City, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in section 32-607 RS Neb.. Petition signers
and petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of sections 32-629
and 32-630 RS Neb. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is
attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required
pursuant to section 32-608 RS Neb. The petitions shall be filed by September 1
in the year of the general election. (Ref. 32-617 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of registered voters
voting for Governor or President of the United States at the immediately
preceding general election in the City or in the ward in which the officer is
to be elected, not to exceed two thousand (2,000).
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least four thousand (4,000), and at least seven hundred
fifty (750) signatures shall be obtained in each congressional district in the
state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number of registered
voters voting for Governor or President of the United States at the immediately
preceding general election within the county, not to exceed two thousand
(2,000), except that the number of signatures shall not be required to exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of registered voters voting for
the office at the immediately preceding general election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least twenty percent (20%)
of the total number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of
the United States at the immediately preceding general election within the
political subdivision, not to exceed two thousand (2,000). (Ref. 32-618 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 427, 9/11/84; 699, 8/11/98; 804, 4/8/03; 1-710, 5/
8/12; 922, 2/10/15; 954, 2/11/20)
§ 1-711 ELECTIONS; COUNCILMEN.
    Councilmen shall be elected from the Municipality at large unless the
residents of the Municipality have voted to elect its Councilmen by wards.
Councilmen shall serve for a term of four (4) years and shall be a resident and
qualified elector. If the election of Councilmen takes place by wards, each
nominee for Councilman shall be a resident and qualified elector of the ward
for which he is a candidate, and only residents of that ward may sign the
candidate's nomination petitions. (Ref. 5-108 RS Neb.)
§ 1-712 ELECTIONS; VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
   Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Nebraska, except school elections; provided, no
person shall be qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a
resident of the State and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county. (Ref. 17-602, 32-102 RS Neb.)
§ 1-713 ELECTIONS; PROCLAMATION.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 293, 10/10/77)
§ 1-714 ELECTIONS; INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 803, 4/8/03)
§ 1-715 ELECTIONS; RECOUNT OF BALLOTS.
   The losing candidate for any office at the Municipal election may request a
recount of the ballots cast when the official canvass of such votes cast
reveals that there is a difference of twenty-five (25) votes or less between
the total cast for the winner and the loser. Such recount shall be made if the
losing candidate files a written request therefor with the Municipal Clerk
within three (3) days following the completion of the official canvass. (Ref.
19-3042 through 19-3050 RS Neb.)
§ 1-716 ELECTIONS; RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk. (Ref. 32-1301 RS
Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the City may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election. (Ref. 32-1302 RS
Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official to be submitted to
the registered voters, shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to
at least thirty-five percent (35%) of the total vote cast for that office in
the last general election, except that for City Council office for which more
than one (1) candidate is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered
voters equal in number to at least thirty-five percent (35%) of the number of
votes cast for the person receiving the most votes for such office in the last
general election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall
be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of sections
32-629 and 32-630 RS Neb.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one (1) registered voter.
Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of sixty (60) words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought,
and shall request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the
principal circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the
official sought to be removed by any method specified in section 25-505.01 RS
Neb. or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the
methods specified in section 25-505.01 RS Neb., by leaving a copy of the filing
form at the official's usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-
class mail to the official's last-known address. If the official chooses, he or
she may submit a defense statement in concise language of sixty (60) words or
less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall be
submitted to the filing clerk within twenty (20) days after the official
receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare the
petition papers within five (5) business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within twenty (20) days after being notified by the filing clerk that
the petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
thirty (30) days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of sections 32-
629 and 32-630 RS Neb. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered
voter and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question. (Ref. 32-1303 RS Neb.)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of section 32-
1304 RS Neb.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one (1)
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within thirty (30) days after the filing
clerk issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or
circulators as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within fifteen (15) business days after the filing of the petition,
the filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose. (Ref. 32-1305 RS Neb.)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in section 25-505.01 RS
Neb. or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the
methods specified in section 25-505.01 RS Neb., by leaving such notice at the
official's usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to
the official's last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within twenty-one (21) days after receipt
of the notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) of this
section, order an election. The date of the election shall be the first
available date that complies with section 32-405 RS Neb. and that can be
certified to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least fifty (50) days
prior to the election, except that if any other election is to be held in the
City within ninety (90) days after such notification, the City Council shall
provide for the holding of the recall election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in section 32-562 RS
Neb. If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election
is held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election. (Ref. 32-1306 RS Neb.)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of section 32-
1307 RS Neb.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and sections 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574 RS Neb.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to one percent
(1%) or less between the removal or retention of the official in question, the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a
recount of the votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a
written statement with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half (1/2) or more of
the members of the City Council or any other Governing Body at one time due to
the recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same Governing Body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Ref. 32-1308 RS Neb.)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within twelve (12) months after a recall election has failed to remove
him or her from office or within six (6) months after the beginning of his or
her term of office or within six (6) months prior to the incumbent filing
deadline for the office. (Ref. 32-1309 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1-716, 5/8/12)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 10716, 12/8/15; 954, 2/11/20; 962, 3/9/21; 985, 3/14/23)
§ 1-717 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person seeking elected office in the Municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding such office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the City. They shall not hold any other public elective
public office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts, and public utility companies. (Ref. 17-108.02, 32-4,157
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 427, 9/11/84)
ARTICLE 8: FISCAL MANAGEMENT
§ 1-801 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Municipality and any public utility of the
Municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act. (Ref. 17-701
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 637, 2/13/96)
§ 1-802 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY;
CORRECTION.  
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to 31-506 RS Neb. A proposed budget statement shall contain
the following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the City as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the City and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The City shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources. (Ref. 13-504 RS
Neb.)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period. (Ref. 13-505 RS Neb.) 
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 428, 9/11/84; 579, 7/12/94; 675, 7/8/97; 753, 5/8/01;
801, 4/8/03; 920, 2/16/14; 985, 3/14/23)
§ 1-802.1 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the City that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the City's financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two (2) fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing
in odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the City in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the City has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and Village Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the City from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes. (Ref. 13-503 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 920, 2/26/14)
§ 1-803 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION;
CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least four (4)
calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four (4) calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per year or twenty thousand dollars
($20,000) per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted at the
City Council's principal headquarters. At such hearing, the Governing Body
shall make at least three (3) copies of the proposed budget statement available
to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions of the
proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison with the
prior year's budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed
budget statement shall be allowed to address the Governing Body at the hearing
and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the Levying Board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within twenty (20) calendar days after its adoption in the manner
provided in this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the
items changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or sections 13-518 to 13-522 RS Neb. If the Auditor detects such errors, he
or she shall immediately notify the Council of such errors. The Council shall
correct any such error as provided in § 1-826. Warrants for the payment of
expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Council. (Ref. 13-506 RS Neb.)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase. (Ref.
13-507 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 800, 4/8/03; 920, 2/26/14; 942, 2/13/18;
962, 3/9/21; 985, 3/14/23)
§ 1-804 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF
AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with sections 13-518 to 13-522 RS Neb., together with the amount of
the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council or the legal voters of the political
subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is ten
percent (10%) or more at the time of the filing and certification required
under this division, the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may
make allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding five percent (5%) of the
amount required plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the
preceding tax year or biennial period and for the amount of estimated tax loss
from any pending or anticipated litigation which involves taxation and in which
tax collections have been or can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For
purposes of this section, anticipated litigation shall be limited to the
anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a
similar action for the preceding year or biennial period which is still
pending. Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not certify an
amount of tax more than one percent (1%) greater or lesser than the amount
determined under 13-505 RS Neb.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to section 13-509 RS Neb. for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this
section. (Ref. 13-508 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 294, 10/10/77; 580, 7/12/
94; 638, 2/13/96; 676, 7/8/97; 920, 2/16/14; 942, 2/13/18; 976, 3/8/22; 985, 3/
14/23)
§ 1-804.1 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the City.
Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the expenditures shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget
in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted. (Ref. 13-509.01 RS
Neb.)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the City to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in
open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged
against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the
budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the City in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision. (Ref. 13-509.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 607, 2/14/95) (Amended
by Ord. No. 920, 2/26/14)
§ 1-805 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 1-806 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Governing Body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed "The Annual Appropriation Bill", in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the City. (Ref. 17-706 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 582, 7/12/94; 639, 2/13/96)
§ 1-807 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ALL PURPOSE LEVY.
   The Governing Body has determined that the amount of money to be raised by
taxation shall be certified to the County Clerk in the form of one all purpose
levy instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific purposes added
together. Said all purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of thirty (30)
mills on the dollar upon the assessed valuation of all taxable property in the
Municipality, except intangible property. (Ref. 19-1309 RS Neb.)
§ 1-808 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVY.
   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the Municipality and to pay judgments obtained against the
Municipality may be made in addition to the all purpose levy. (Ref. 19-1309 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-809 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INADEQUATE VALUATION.
   If the valuation of the Municipality has been reduced so that the maximum
levy permitted by section
1-807 is inadequate to produce the necessary revenue, said maximum levy may be
exceeded upon presentation to the Governing Body of petitions signed by a
majority of the registered voters of the Municipality requesting such action
and specifying the extent to, and the period of time, not to exceed five (5)
years, in which such maximum may be exceeded. No signature may be withdrawn
after the petitions have been filed with the Governing Body. The Governing Body
shall cause such petitions, accompanied by the certificate of the County Clerk
that he has examined the petitions and that they have been signed by a majority
of the registered voters of the Municipality, to be filed with the County Board
in which the Municipality is located. After such filing, the Governing Body may
exceed the maximum mill levy to the extent and for the period of time specified
in the petitions. (Ref. 19-1309 RS Neb.)
§ 1-810 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ALL PURPOSE LEVY, ALLOCATION.
   The Governing Body shall allocate the amount raised by the all purpose levy
to the several departments of the Municipality in its annual budget and
appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the Governing Body shall
deem best.  (Ref. 19-1310 RS Neb.)
§ 1-811 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ALL PURPOSE LEVY, ABANDONMENT.
   The Municipality shall be bound by their election of the all purpose levy
during the ensuing fiscal year, but may abandon such method in succeeding
fiscal years. (Ref. 19-1311 RS Neb.)
§ 1-812 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES.
   No Municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the general fund of the Municipality shall exceed in any
one (1) year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement. (Ref. 17-708 RS Neb.)
§ 1-813 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in section 18-412.01 RS Neb. for a contract with a
public power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric
distribution, transmission, or generation system of the municipal, no contract
for enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers,
public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property, costing over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by
the Governing Body.
   (B)   Except as provided in section 18-412.01 RS Neb., before the Governing
Body makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the Governing Body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
Governing Body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross
annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven (7) days prior to the bid closing in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the Municipality. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by section 17-613 RS Neb. when adopted by a 3/4 vote of the
Governing Body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
Governing Body receives fewer than two (2) bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the Governing Body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the Governing Body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Governing Body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the Municipality, the Governing
Body or Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of
those materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when
it is provided by the manufacturer. (Ref. 17-568.01 RS Neb.)
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the Governing Body or
Board of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in sections 81-145 through 81-
162 RS Neb.;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to section 48-1503 RS Neb.; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Ref. 17-568.02 RS Neb.)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means. (Ref. 18-1756 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 341, 11/12/79; 413, 12/13/83; 702, 8/11/98; 1-813, 5/8/12; 942, 2/13/18)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see 73-101 et seq. RS Neb.
§ 1-814 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the Municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Governing Body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six (6) months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
(3) copies of the audit report to the Governing Body. All public utilities or
other enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be
audited separately, except in villages having a population of less than eight
hundred (800), and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the
annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the Municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two (2) copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk's office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One (1) copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts;
provided, that all villages may file an unaudited statement of cash receipts
and disbursements annually in lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited statement
shall be filed with the  Auditor of Public Accounts in a form prescribed by
him. The unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements shall become a
part of the public records of the Municipal Clerk and shall at all times
thereafter be open and subject to public inspection. Every Governing Body that
is required herein to submit to an audit of its accounts shall provide and file
with the Municipal Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year, financial
statements showing its actual and budgeted figures for the most recently
completed fiscal year. (Ref. 19-2901 through 19-2909, 13-606 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 295, 10/10/77; 429, 9/11/84)
§ 1-815 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS.
   All claims against the Municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the Municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of eighty-five percent (85%) of the current
levy for the purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient
money in the Municipal Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to
be drawn; provided, that in the event there exists obligated funds from the
Federal and/or State government for the general purpose of such warrant, then
such warrant may be drawn in excess of eighty-five percent (85%), but not more
than one hundred percent (100%) of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn. (Ref. 17-714, 17-715 RS Neb.)
§ 1-816 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of
the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such
fund. (Ref. 17-711 RS Neb.)
§ 1-817 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the Municipality for money expended for any such
improvement. (Ref. 17-710 RS Neb.)
§ 1-818 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The City is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the City for City library purposes under
the provisions of sections 51-215 and 51-216 RS Neb. (Ref. 19-1301 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the City for a term of not to exceed ten (10) years, in addition to the amount
of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the City, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
City libraries; City auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; City halls; City public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; City swimming pools; City jails; City fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; City parks; City cemeteries;
City medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or City
hospitals. The City shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such
city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten (10) years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C).  (Ref. 19-1302 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned City improvements mentioned in division (B)
by the City, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the City at the next general City election the
proposition to provide the City with the specific City improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten (10) years, required to provide such cost,
and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be
established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of
the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three (3)
successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the City or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the City, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the City is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the City cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division, the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do all
things authorized under such resolution of submission but never inconsistent
with this section. The election provided for under this section shall be
conducted as provided under the Election Act. (Ref. 19-1303 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in section 17-540 RS Neb. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or
funds are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be
reported to the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter
of record by the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking
fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by sixty percent (60%) of the qualified electors of the City voting
at a general election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds. The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one (1) year from and after the date of such election.  (Ref.
19-1304 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see section 17-702 RS Neb.
   Investment in warrants, see section 77-2337 RS Neb.
§ 1-819 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the City
Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution,
or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as Mayor, as a
member of the City Council, or as any other officer of the city shall not
disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions (1) a bond in such
penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount
insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu
thereof, (2) security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The City Council
shall approve such bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer shall not be
liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such
depository so designated and approved. (Ref. 17-607 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by such corporation,
and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or other
security shall be required. (Ref. 77-2362 RS Neb.)
   (D)   Section 77-2366 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions. Section 77-2365.01 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in
qualifying mutual financial institutions. (Ref. 17-607, 77-2362 RS Neb.)   
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 700, 8/11/98; 774, 6/11/02; 815, 3/9/04)
§ 1-819.01 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS;
CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the State of Nebraska to the extent that such
certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the
amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the same manner as is
provided for cities of the first class in sections 16-714 to 16-716 RS Neb.
Section 77-2366 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Section 77-2365.01 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in qualifying
mutual financial institutions. (Ref. 17-720 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 701, 8/11/98)
(Amended by Ord. No. 775, 6/11/02)
§ 1-819.02 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CREDIT CARDS AND ELECTRONIC TRANSFERS; AUTHORITY
TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The Governing Body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by section 77-1702 RS Neb.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
municipal official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Governing Body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards,
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The Governing Body may choose to participate in the state contract for
such payment services. If the Governing Body chooses not to participate in the
state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one (1) or more financial institutions, vending
service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-
party merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the Governing Body shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge
card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality, but the surcharge or
convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by
the credit card or charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which
have contracted with the state or under division (E) of this section. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the Municipality by credit card or
charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of
such surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by such person and
shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit
card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system
for providing or retrieving information electronically, the municipal official
shall be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or
convenience fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, electronic funds transfer means the
movement of funds by nonpaper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve's Fedwire system. (Ref. 13-609 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 798, 4/8/03)
§ 1-819.05 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH
COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The City may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the purpose of
collecting public debts owed by any person to the City.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least thirty (30) days have elapsed from the time the notice was
sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be twenty-five dollars ($25) or four and one-half percent (4.5%) of the
debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee shall be paid by the person who
owes the debt directly to the person or agency providing the collection
service. (Ref. 45-623 RS Neb.) (Ord. 962, 3/9/21)
§ 1-820 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the governing body of such city may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the
state investment officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. (Ref. 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01, 77-2341 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 509, 11/14/89)
§ 1-821 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BOND ISSUES.
   The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of State law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by State law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by State law.
(Ref. 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-614, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-
529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 through
18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836 RS Neb.)
§ 1-822 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET
STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING; ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
City. (Ref. 18-2803 RS Neb.)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the City's general fund in excess of
the amount paid by the City to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received. (Ref. 18-2804 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the City's general fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the City.
   (C)   (1)   At least thirty (30) days prior to the start of the fiscal year
of each proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be
prepared in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source; the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year; the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year; and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act. (Ref. 18-2805 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one (1) time at least five (5) days
prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within
the City Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Council's jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within twenty (20) days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation within the Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the Council's jurisdiction. (Ref. 18-2806 RS Neb.)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within ninety (90) days after the end of the fiscal year which
reflects any difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for
the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that
fiscal year. After the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation
statement, it shall be filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation within the Council's jurisdiction or by
mailing to each resident within the Council's jurisdiction. If the difference
between the adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the
actual expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than ten
percent (10%), the proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be
adopted following a public hearing. (Ref. 18-2807 RS Neb.)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the City budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the City shall be shown as a source of revenue in the City budget statement
created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act. (Ref. 18-2808 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No.
581, 7/12/94) (Amended by Ord. No. 976, passed 3/8/22)
§ 1-823 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Municipality shall collect the special assessments which it levies
and perform all other necessary functions related thereto including
foreclosure. Notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last-known address of the person against whom such
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay such special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (B)   The Municipality shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds. (Ref. 18-1216 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 677, 7/8/97)
§ 1-824 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year's rate of levy, the City's property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the City's rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant to section
77-1601 RS Neb. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set
the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) of this section. If the City Council seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) of this section and by passing a resolution or
ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section. If any county, city,
school district, or community college seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision shall comply with the requirements of section 77-1633 RS Neb. in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year's rate of levy, the City's property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the City's rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to section 77-1601 RS Neb. The City Council shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If the City Council
seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property
tax request in the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this section and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) of this
section. If any county, city, school district, or community college seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage,
such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of section 77-
1633 RS Neb. in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) of this
section.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
City at least four (4) calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four (4) calendar days shall include the day of publication but not
the day of hearing. If the City's total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per year or twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000) per biennial period, the notice may be posted at the
City Council's principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under section 13-509 RS Neb. for
the prior year, the certified taxable valuation under section 13-509 RS Neb.
for the current year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such
valuations from the prior year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a City's property tax request
under section 77-1632 RS Neb. at an amount that exceeds the City's property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the City;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by          percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $         per one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Plainview proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $         per one hundred dollars ($100) of
assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of Plainview will exceed last year's by
         percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(Ref. 77-1632 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 678, 7/8/97) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 738, 7/11/
00; 954, 2/11/20; 976, 3/8/22; 995, 4/9/24)
§ 1-824.01 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN
ALLOWABLE GROWTH PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision's principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by section 84-1409 RS
Neb. of the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to section 13-508 RS
Neb.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated representative
of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision's budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by          percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $         per one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed value;
            3.   The City of Plainview proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $         per one hundred dollars ($100) of
assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of Plainview will exceed last year's
by          percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the City of Plainview at 1-402-582-
4928 and Info@CityofPlainviewNE.com.
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county's website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than ten thousand (10,000) inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
of this section to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall
notify the County Assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing no later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each
participating political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the
joint public hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required
to be included on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) of this section to
a printing service designated by the County Board. The initial cost for
printing the postcards shall be paid from the county general fund. Such
postcards shall be mailed at least seven (7) calendar days before the joint
public hearing. The cost of creating and mailing the postcards, including staff
time, materials, and postage, shall be charged proportionately to the political
subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing based on the total
number of parcels in each participating political subdivision. Each
participating political subdivision shall also maintain a prominently displayed
and easily accessible link on the home page of the political subdivision's
website to the political subdivision's proposed budget, except that this
requirement shall not apply if the political subdivision is a county with a
population of less than ten thousand (10,000) inhabitants, a city with a
population of less than one thousand (1,000) inhabitants, or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   The postcard sent under this division and the notice posted on the
county's website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) of this section, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision's property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(9)(a) of this section;
         (c)   The following statement: “The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates.”
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property's assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property's assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: “To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.”
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) of this
section, the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall
pass an ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision's property
tax request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax
request over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess
of the allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by          percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $         per one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Plainview proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $         per one hundred dollars ($100) of
assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of Plainview will exceed last year's by
         percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include:
      (1)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
      (2)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
      (3)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
      (4)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
      (5)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
      (6)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint public
hearing.
      Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten (10) days after such
hearing.
(Ref. 77-1633 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 976, 3/8/22) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 985, 3/14/
23; 995, 4/9/24)
§ 1-825 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the City for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The city may levy a
maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the
levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the City's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to section 51-201 RS Neb., museum pursuant
to section 51-501 RS Neb., visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home
health agency pursuant to section 71-1637 RS Neb., or statue, memorial, or
monument pursuant to section 80-202 RS Neb. Property tax levies for judgments,
except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial Relations,
obtained against the City which require or obligate the City to pay that
judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the City, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior
to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured
by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-
free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a
lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy limits
established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in
this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies provided
by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the
limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under section 77-1606 RS Neb. unless approved
under division (C). (Ref. 77-3442 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   All City Airport Authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the City and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-street parking
districts established under the Offstreet Parking District Act, the tax shall
be counted in the allocation by the City proportionately, by dividing the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the district by the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the City multiplied by the
levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B).
The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the City may be exceeded as provided in division
(C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to City
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision's governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in section 77-3444 RS
Neb. to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue. (Ref. 77-3443 RS
Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   The City may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and delivering a copy
of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every county
which contains all or part of the City; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the City requesting an
election signed by at least five percent (5%) of the registered voters residing
in the City.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five (5) years. Any resolution or petition calling for
a special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time
of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
section 32-802 RS Neb. shall be no later than twenty (20) days prior to the
election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least thirty-one (31) days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The
election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with
the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition
shall be in the form as provided in sections 32-628 through 32-631 RS Neb.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one (1) resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one (1) calendar year.
Only one (1) election may be held in any one (1) calendar year pursuant to a
petition initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any
terms and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include
the language specified in section 77-3444 RS Neb.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The City may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the City; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the City requesting an
election signed by at least five percent (5%) of the registered voters residing
in the City.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five (5) years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least thirty-one (31) days after receipt of
the resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of
the notice of election required in section 32-802 RS Neb. shall be no later
than twenty (20) days prior to the election. The election shall be held
pursuant to the Election Act. (Ref. 77-3444 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 739, 7/11/00)
(Amended by Ord. No. 942, 2/13/18; 985, 3/14/23)
§ 1-826 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated sections 13-518 through 13-522 RS
Neb., such that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof
will be insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or
there is a need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with sections 13-
518 through 13-522 RS Neb.; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to section 81-829.51 RS Neb.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Council's jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within thirty (30) days after the adoption of the budget under section
13-506 RS Neb., the City Council may, or within thirty (30) days after
notification of an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the City Council
shall correct an adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or
accounting error which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than
one percent (1%) or increase the amount required from property taxes. No public
hearing shall be required for such a correction. After correction, the City
Council shall file a copy of the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the
county or counties in which the City Council is located and with the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for
expenditures authorized by the budget. (Ref. 13-511 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 740, 7/
11/00) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 776, 6/11/02; 799, 4/8/03; 1-826, 12/8/15)
§ 1-827 LB 840 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Council hereby establishes and adopts the LB 840 Plan, as
previously approved by the Council in the enabling Resolution, and submitted to
and approved by the voters of Plainview at the last general election.
   (B)   The term of existence of the LB 840 Economic Development Program shall
be: so long as the City of Plainview collects local option sales tax dedicated
to economic development; the funding of the Program shall match that same time
period. Funding shall be the revenue from the dedicated economic development
local option sales tax of one-third (1/3) of one percent (1%), which has
already been approved by the voters, as well as any funds that may be received
from non-city sources (grants, etc.) that are dedicated to economic
development.
   (C)   In conformance with the LB 840 Plan the City hereby establishes and
creates the Citizen Advisory Board, consisting of five (5) members, all of whom
shall be registered voters of the City of Plainview. The members shall be
appointed to the Committee by the Mayor, subject to approval of the Council; At
least one (1) member of the Committee shall have expertise or experience in the
business of finance or accounting. The City official or employee with
responsibility for the administration for the economic, development program
shall be the City Administrator or his/her designee, and that individual shall
serve as an ex officio member of the Committee with responsibility for
assisting the Committee and providing it with the necessary information and
advice on the Economic Development Program.
   (D)   No member of the Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall be an elected
or appointed City official, an employee of the City, a participant in a
decision-making position regarding expenditures of Program funds, or an
official or employee of any qualifying business receiving financial assistance
under the Economic Development Program or of any financial institution
participating directly in the Economic Development Program.
   (E)   The Citizen Advisory Review Committee shall have regular meetings to
review the functioning and progress of the Economic Development Program and to
advise the Governing Body of the City with regard to the Program. At least once
in every six (6)-month period after the effective date of this section, the
Committee shall report to the Governing Body on its findings and suggestions at
a public hearing called for that purpose.
   (F)   Members of the Citizen Advisory Review Committee, in their capacity as
members and consistent with their responsibilities as members, may be permitted
access to business information received by the City in the course of its
administration of the Economic Development Program, which information would
otherwise be confidential:
      (1)   Under section 84-712.05 RS Neb.;
      (2)   By agreement with a qualifying business participation in the
Economic Development Program; or
      (3)   Under any ordinance of the City providing access to such records to
members of the Committee and guaranteeing the confidentiality of business
information received by reason of its administration of the Economic
Development Program. Unauthorized disclosure of any business information which
is confidential under section 84-712.05 RS Neb. shall be a Class III
misdemeanor. (Ord. No. 921, 12/9/14)
ARTICLE 9: COMPENSATION
§ 1-901 COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The Compensation of any elective official of the Municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected
except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the compensation of
the members of the Governing Body, a board, or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether or not the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No elected
official may be rehired at a greater salary if he resigns and desires to be
rehired during the unexpired term of office. He may be rehired after the term
of office during which he resigned at a greater salary. All salaries shall be
set by ordinance of the Governing Body and will be available for public
inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-108.02, 17-612 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-902 COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or more at fair market value or which represents more
than a five percent (5%) equity interest or is a stockholder of publicly traded
stock worth ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or more at fair market value or
which represents more than ten percent (10%) equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker. (Ref. 49-1408 RS
Neb.)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual's household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual's spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes. (Ref. 49-
1425 RS Neb.)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the City which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected City official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in sections 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04 RS Neb.,
no officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one (1) year
after the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (E)   If an officer's parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer's governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Section 49-14,102 RS Neb. does not apply to contracts covered by this
section. (Ref. 49-14,103.01 RS Neb.)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five (5)
years from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten (10) days after the contract has been signed by both parties.
The ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Ref. 49-14,103.02 RS Neb.)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G) of
this section shall be filed within ten (10) days after the account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section. (Ref. 49-14,103.03 RS Neb.)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest. (Ref. 49-14,103.05 RS Neb.)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) of this
section contracts involving one hundred dollars ($100) or less in which an
officer of that body may have an interest. (Ref. 49-14,103.06 RS Neb.)  
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 400, 9/14/82; 411, 12/13/83; 430, 9/11/84; 462, 11/11/86;
772, 6/11/02; 976, 3/8/22)
§ 1-903 EMPLOYEE DISCLOSURE RULES.
   (A)   (1)   A current or former employer may disclose the following
information about a current or former employee's employment history to a
prospective employer of the current or former employee upon receipt of written
consent from the current or former employee:
         (a)   Date and duration of employment;
         (b)   Pay rate and wage history on the date of receipt of written
consent;
         (c)   Job description and duties;
         (d)   The most recent written performance evaluation prepared prior to
the date of the request and provided to the employee during the course of his
or her employment;
         (e)   Attendance information;
         (f)   Results of drug or alcohol tests administered within one (1)
year prior to the request;
         (g)   Threats of violence, harassing acts or threatening behavior
related to the workplace or directed at another employee;
         (h)   Whether the employee was voluntarily or involuntarily separated
from employment and the reason for the separation; and
         (i)   Whether the employee is eligible for rehire.
      (2)   The current or former employee disclosing such information shall be
presumed to be acting in good faith and shall be immune from civil liability
for the disclosure or any consequences of such disclosure unless the
presumption of good faith is rebutted upon a showing by a preponderance of the
evidence that the information disclosed by the current or former employer was
false, and the current or former employer had knowledge of its falsity or acted
with malice or reckless disregard for the truth.
   (B)   (1)   The consent required in subsection (A) of this section shall be
on a separate form from the application form or, if included in the application
form, shall be in bold letters and in larger typeface that the largest typeface
in the text of the application form. The consent form shall state, at a
minimum, language similar to the following:
I, (applicant), hereby give consent to any and all prior employers of mine to
provide information with regard to my employment with prior employers to
(prospective employer).
      (2)   The consent must be signed and dated by the applicant.
      (3)   The consent will be valid for no longer than six (6) months.
   (C)   This section shall also apply to any current or former employee,
agent, or other representative of the current or former employer who is
authorized to provide and who provides information in accordance with this
section.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not require any prospective employer to
request employment history on a prospective employee and does not require any
current or former employer to disclose employment history to any prospective
employer.
      (2)   Except as specifically amended in this section. This common law of
this state remains unchanged as it relates to providing employment information
on current and former employees.
      (3)   This section applies only to causes of action accruing on and after
the effective date of this act.
   (E)   This immunity conferred by this section shall not apply when an
employer discriminated or retaliated against an employee because the employee
has exercised or is believed to have exercised any federal or state statutory
right or undertaken any action encouraged by the public policy of this state.
(Ord. No. 909, 5/14/13)
ARTICLE 10: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
[Editor's Note: Article 10 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 401,
Passed on 9/14/82; Sections 1-1001 through 1-1005, 1-1008 through 1-1014 were
amended by Ordinance No. 431, Passed 9/11/84]
§ 1-1001 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DEFINITIONS.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the Municipality by State law. This Article shall govern the use of
initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the Municipality. For purposes of this Article, the
definitions set out in this Section, unless the context otherwise requires,
shall apply.
   CIRCULATOR shall mean any person who solicits signatures for an initiative
or referendum petition.
   CLERK shall mean the Municipal Clerk or the Municipal official in charge of
elections.
   GOVERNING BODY shall mean the legislative authority of the Municipality.
   MEASURE shall mean an ordinance, charter provision, or resolution which is
within the legislative authority of the Governing Body to pass, and which is
not excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in Section
1-1012.
   MUNICIPALITY shall mean the City of Plainview, Nebraska.
   PETITION shall mean a document authorized for circulation pursuant to
Section 1-1002, or any copy of such document.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the street and number of the residence. If
there is no street and number for the residence, place of residence shall mean
the mailing address.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION shall mean a sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
   QUALIFIED ELECTORS shall mean all persons registered to vote, at the time
the prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be
governed by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative, or altered or
repealed by referendum.
   RESIDENCE shall mean that place at which a person has established his or her
home, where he or she is habitually present, and to which, when he or she
departs, he or she intends to return.
   SIGNATURE SHEET shall mean a sheet of paper which is part of a petition and
which is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort. (Ref. 18-
2501 through 18-2511 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1002 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the petitioner
shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall date the
prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall verify that
the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a ballot title for
the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If the prospective
petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within three (3) working days
from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of the
prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three (3) working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two (2) working days from
the receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that
the prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by
the Clerk, Governing Body, or Municipality that the measure is subject to
referendum or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by
initiative.
   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall consist
of:
      A.   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      B.   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure, and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      C.   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than seventy-five
(75) words, of the chief purpose of the measure.
   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal shall
contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum shall
be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in lower case
ten point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type. All
initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan manner
without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have not been
approved or endorsed by any political party or organization. (Ref. 18-2512, 18-
2513 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1003 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITION FORM.
   (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by the City
Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing prospective
petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum forms is
required before authorization to circulate such petition shall be granted by
the City Clerk. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective
petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition for
circulation after authorization for circulation has been granted. (Ref. 18-2514
RS Neb.)
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the City Clerk. Every petition shall
contain the name and place of residence of not more than three persons as chief
petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners or sponsors shall
be qualified electors of the municipality potentially affected by the
initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain the caption and
the statement specified to be part of the ballot title. When a special election
is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition. (Ref. 18-2515
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 814, 3/9/04)
§ 1-1003.01 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The city or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this Article, as it may be from time to
time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure is
subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be enacted
by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the city
shall be served by personal, residence, or certified mail service upon the
chief executive officer or City Clerk. If the city seeks a declaratory
judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be required to
be served.
   (B)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the district
court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with
the City Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from the date the City
Council received notification from the verifying official that the necessary
signatures have been obtained. If the city does not bring an action for
declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative,
until after it has received such notification, it shall be required to proceed
with the initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of
this Article. If the city does file such an action prior to receiving such
notification, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a
final decision has been rendered in the action.
   (C)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
sections 25-21,149 through 25-21,164 RS Neb., except that only the city and
each chief petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The city, City
Clerk, City Council, or any of the city's officers shall be entitled to rely on
any order rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for
declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be given priority in
scheduling hearings and in disposition as determined by the court. When an
action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a
decision shall be rendered by the court no later than five (5) days prior to
the election.
   (D)   The provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall
not be construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to
other rights and remedies conferred by law. (Ref.18-2538 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
814, 3/9/04)
§ 1-1004 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   Every signature sheet shall:
      1.   Contain the caption required in subdivision A of Section
1-1002 of this Article;
      2.   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
      3.   Provide space for signatories to write their names, residential
addresses, and the date of signing; and
      4.   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a
signature sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   No more than twenty-five (25) signatures on each signature sheet shall be
counted. In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual
registered to vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to
be governed by the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include
the signatory's full name, his or her place of residence, and the date of
signing. No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her
place of residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband's
Christian or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own
Christian or given name along with her surname. (Ref. 18-2516 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1005 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes  that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.  (Ref. 18-2517 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1006 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   A.   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
Governing Body, the Municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the County in which such Municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The Municipality
shall reimburse the County for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that one
hundred (100%) percent of the necessary signatures required by this Article
have been obtained, he or she shall notify the Governing Body of that fact, and
shall immediately forward to the Governing Body a copy of the petition.
   B.   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the Governing Body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six (6) months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Ref. 18-2518 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1007 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two (2) years. No attempt to repeal or
alter an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may
be made within two (2) years from the last attempt to do the same. Such
prohibition shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is
designed to accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the
previous attempt. (Ref. 18-2519 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1008 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DIRECT VOTE.
   The Executive Officer and Governing Body of the Municipality may at any
time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override
of any veto, if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this Article and
may provide in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a
special election or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election.
Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for submission, the Clerk
shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors, at
the time specified in such resolution and in the manner provided in this
Article for submission of measures upon proposals and petitions filed by
voters. Such matter shall become law if approved by a majority of the votes
cast. (Ref. 18-2520 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1009 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; ELECTIONS.
   The Clerk shall call elections under this Article, either at a special
election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she shall
cause notice of every such election to be printed in one (1) or more newspapers
of general circulation in such Municipality at least once not less than thirty
(30) days prior to such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk and
in at least three (3) conspicuous places in such Municipality at least thirty
(30) days prior to such election. The notice shall be substantially as follows:
   Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the            day
of                                 , 19      , at (identify polling place or
precinct) of the Municipality of                         , Nebraska, an
election will be held at which there will be submitted to the electors of the
Municipality for their approval or rejection, the following measures,
propositions, or issues:
(naming measures, propositions, or issues), which election will be open at 8:00
a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
Dated this             day of                                    , 19        .
      _______________________________________
      Clerk of the City/Village of
      __________________________, Nebraska.
   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet form of
measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this Section shall
designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained. (Ref. 18-2521 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-1010 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this Article shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the Governing Body, unless the Governing
Body contracts with the County for such service, and shall be in form the same
as provided by law for election of the Executive Officer and Governing Body of
such Municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the
electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this Article. (Ref. 18-2522 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-1011 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; INITIATIVE.
   A.   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the Municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   B.   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to Section
1-1012.
   C.   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least fifteen (15%) percent of the qualified electors of the Municipality
has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the
Governing Body to consider passage of the measure contained in the petition
including an override of any veto, if necessary. If the Governing Body fails to
pass the measure without amendment, including an override of any veto, if
necessary, within thirty (30) days from the date it received notification, the
Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
Municipality. If the Governing Body desires to submit the measure to a vote of
the people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary
or general election held within the Municipality, the Governing Body, shall, by
resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special
election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum.
   D.   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least twenty (20%) percent of the qualified electors which requests that a
special election be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the
people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to Section 1-1006,
it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to consider passage of the measure
contained in the petition including an override of any veto, if necessary. If
the Governing Body fails to pass the measure, without amendment, including an
override of any veto, if necessary, within thirty (30) days from the date it
received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a
vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose. The date of
such election shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days
from the date the Governing Body received notification pursuant to Section
1-1006.
   E.   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
Municipality thirty (30) days after certification of the election results,
unless the Governing Body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the
measure itself provides for a later effective date, which resolution shall not
be subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed except by two-thirds (2/3) majority of the
members of the Governing Body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made
within one (1) year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(Ref. 18-2523 through 18-2526 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1012 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   (1)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
Municipality. (Ref. 18-2527 RS Neb.)
   (2)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
         (a)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations
including, but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided
for in bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects
previously approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or
limited referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to July
17, 1982;
         (b)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
         (c)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following
compliance with procedures set forth in the Nebraska Budget Act;
         (d)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the Governing Body and approved
by the Mayor;
         (e)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in subsection 4 of this section for which a sufficient referendum
petition was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which
received voter approval after the filing of such petition;
         (f)   Resolutions directing the Municipal Clerk to cause measures to
be submitted to a vote of the people at a special elections as provided in
Section
1-1011 subsection C (Initiative and Referedum; Initiative) and Section
1-1013 subsection A (Initiative and Referendum; Referendum, Passage);
         (g)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures
enacted by initiative as provided in Section
1-1011 subsection E (Initiative and Referendum; Initiative);
         (h)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the Municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness;
         (i)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal a
zoning regulation, restriction, or boundary and are subject to protest as
provided in section 19-905 RS Neb.; and
         (j)   Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not
limited to, establishment, modification or elimination of any personnel
position, policy, salary, or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion or
termination of personnel. (Ref. 18-2528(1) RS Neb.)
      (3)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
         (a) Measures in furtherance of a policy of the Municipality or
relating to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to
referendum or which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the
voters at an election, except that such measures shall not be subject to
referendum or limited referendum for a period of one (1) year after any such
policy or project was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative,
or approved by the voters at an election;
         (b)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement, or enlargement, including the financing or
refinancing of the costs of public ways, public property, utility systems, and
other capital projects, and measures giving initial approval for industrial
development projects; and
         (c)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness,
and pay rates and salaries for Municipal employees other than the members of
the Governing Body and the Mayor; and
         (d)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
prusuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the Municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness.
(Ref. 18-2528(2) RS Neb.)
      (4)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect
thirty (30) days after their passage by the Governing Body, including an
override of any veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures
subject to limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification
pursuant to Section
1-1006 (Initiative and Referendum; Petitions; Notification; Verification)
within thirty (30) days after such measure's passage by the Governing Body,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after notice is first
published pursuant to subdivision 5(c) of this section. If the necessary number
of signatures as provided in Section
1-1011 (Initiative and Referendum; Initiative) has been obtained within the
time limitation, the effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless
approved by the voters. (Ref. 18-2528(3) RS Neb.)
      (5)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement, or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems, or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the Municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this Article by the following procedure:
         (a)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place
of such hearing being published at least once not less than five (5) days prior
to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
Governing Body's jurisdiction;
         (b)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
         (c)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto,
if necessary, by giving notice as follows:
            (i)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of thirty (30) days after the first (1st) publication of such notice and
that, after such thirty (30) day period, the project and measures related to it
will not be subject to any further right of referendum; and
            (ii)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer's estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of thirty (30) days after the first (1st) publication of such notice and
that, after such thirty (30) day period, the project and measures related to it
will not be subject to any further right of referendum. The notice required by
this subdivision shall be published in at least one (1) newspaper of general
circulation within the Municipality and shall be published not later than
fifteen (15) days after passage by the Governing Body, including an override of
a veto, if necessary, of a measure approving the project. The right to hold
such a hearing prior to the passage of the measure by the Governing Body and
give such notice after passage of such measure by the Governing Body to obtain
exemption for any particular project in a manner described in this subsection
is optional and the Municipality shall not be required to hold such a hearing
or give such notice for any particular project. (Ref. 18-2528(4) RS Neb.)
      (6)   All measures, except as provided in subsections (2), (3) and (5) of
this section, shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after
such measure has been passed by the Governing Body, including an override of a
veto, if necessary, or enacted by the voters by initiative. (Ref. 18-2528(5) RS
Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. No. 754, 5/8/01)
§ 1-1013 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   A.   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to at
least fifteen (15%) percent of the qualified electors of the Municipality has
been filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to Section
1-1006, it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the Governing
Body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within thirty (30) days from the date the Governing Body receives notification
pursuant to Section 1-1006, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted
to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general
election held within the Municipality. If the Governing Body desires to submit
the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the next
regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the Municipality,
the Governing Body shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure
to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to
referendum or limited referendum.
   B.   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to at
least twenty (20%) percent of the qualified voters of the Municipality which
requests that a special election be called to submit the referendum measure to
a vote of the people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be
the duty of the Governing Body to reconsider the measure or portion of such
measure which is the object of the referendum. If the Governing Body fails to
repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the
referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall
cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election
called for such purpose within thirty (30) days from the date the Governing
Body received notification. The date of such special election shall not be less
than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days from the date the Governing Body
received notification.
   C.   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds (2/3)
majority of the members of the Governing Body. No such attempt to reenact or
return the measure to its original form shall be made within one (1) year of
the repeal or amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum
measure does not receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately be
come effective or remain in effect.
(Ref. 18-2529 through 18-2531 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1014 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES.
   A.   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a false
oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Sections 18-2501 through 18-2531 RS Neb. shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor with a limit of three hundred ($300.00) dollars on the fine.
   B.   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Sections 18-2501
through 18-2531 RS Neb. shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit
of five hundred ($500.00) dollars on the fine.
   C.   Whoever signs any petition under Sections 18-2501 through 18-2531 RS
Neb. knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this Section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of three
hundred ($300.00) dollars on the fine.
   D.   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of
Sections 18-2501 through 18-2531 RS Neb. or who willfully causes unreasonable
delay in the execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty
of a Class I misdemeanor but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment.
(Ref. 18-2532 through 18-2535 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1015 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of the statutes of the State of Nebraska relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of  ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election, and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this Article.
Nothing in this Article shall apply to procedures for initiatives or
referendums provided in Nebraska Revised Statutes Sections 18-412 and 18-412.02
relating to Municipal light and power plants, Sections 70-504, 70-650.01 and
70-650.02, relating to public power districts, and Sections 80-203 to 80-205
relating to soldiers and sailors monuments. (Ref. 18-2536, 18-2537 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 11: INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 1-1101 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   PUBLIC AGENCY means any county, city, village, school district, public
power district, rural fire district, or other political subdivision of this
State, the State of Nebraska, the University of Nebraska, and any corporation
whose primary function is to act as an instrumentality or agency of the State
of Nebraska. (Ref. 44-4303 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City Council and any one or more public agencies may make and
execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance
with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act to form, become members of, and
operate a risk management pool for the purpose of providing to members risk
management services and insurance coverages in the form of group self-insurance
or standard insurance, including any combination of group self-insurance and
standard insurance, to protect members against losses arising from any of the
following:
      (1)   General liability;
      (2)   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property,
including, but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or
extra expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
      (3)   Errors and omissions liability; and
      (4)   Workers’ compensation liability.
   (C)   The City Council and any one (1) or more public agencies, other than
school districts and educational service units, may make and execute an
agreement providing for joint and cooperative action in accordance with the act
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to provide health, dental,
accident, and life insurance to member’s employees and officers. (Ref. 44-4304
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 773, 6/11/02)
ARTICLE 12:  PENAL PROVISION
§ 1-1201 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Article
   
1.   STANDING COMMITTEES
   
2.   COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
   
3.   AIRPORT AUTHORITY
   
4.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 2-101 STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the City Council may by ordinance, or
resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at
any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one (1) year, unless reappointed.
   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each
year until changed by the Governing Body:
   Streets and Alleys
   Sewer and Water
   Lights
   Finance
ARTICLE 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 2-201 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five (5) appointed members who
shall be residents of the Municipality and who shall serve terms of four (4)
years. The Governing Body shall appoint the members of the Library Board by a
majority vote. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Governing Body shall be
a member of the Library Board. The terms of members serving on the effective
date of a change in the number of members shall not be shortened, and any
successors to those members shall be appointed as the terms of those members
expire. In case of any vacancy by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the
Governing Body shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.
   (2)   No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any services
rendered as a member of the Library Board. The Governing Body may require the
members of the Library Board to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the
Governing Body and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
   (3)   At the time of the Board's first (1st) meeting in July of each year,
the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson and
Secretary. No member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both
the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and
to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (4)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing
Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson, or a majority of the members of the Board.
   (5)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a Librarian and
all other employees. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all
employees of the Library including the Librarian.
   (6)   The Library Board shall have general charge of the Municipal Library
and shall establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management,
operation, and use of the Library. All actions of the Board shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the Governing Body. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the Governing Body may designate from time to time. (Ref. 51-202 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 388, 12/8/81; 467, 1/13/87; 703, 8/11/98)
§ 2-201.05 LIBRARY BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.  (Ref. 51-213 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 834, 2/8/05)
§ 2-201.1 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (1)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with
sections 51-201 through 51-219 RS Neb. (Ref. 51-205 RS Neb.)
   (2)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose. (Ref. 51-207 RS Neb.)
   (3)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The Governing Body of the City shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (4)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the Library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of sections 51-201 through 51-219 RS Neb. in establishing and
maintaining the library and reading room. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
   (5)   Grounds and building. The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds,
exercise the power of eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose
of securing a site for a library building. The procedure to condemn property
shall be exercised in the manner set forth in sections 76-704 through 76-724 RS
Neb. (Ref. 51-210 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 2-201.1, 2/12/13)
§ 2-202 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to sections 19-901 et seq. RS Neb., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five (5), seven (7), or nine (9) regular members, as specified by the City
Council by ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the
different professions or occupations in the City and shall be appointed by the
Mayor by and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the
City Council. Two (2) of the regular members may be residents of the area over
which the City is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and
subdivision regulation. When there are five hundred (500) residents in the area
over which the City exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one (1) regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from
such area. If it is determined by the City Council that five hundred (500)
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three (3)
years, except that one-third (1/3) or fewer of the regular members of the first
commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one (1) year, one-third
(1/3) or fewer for terms of two (2) years, and the remaining members for terms
of three (3) years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three (3) years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under section 18-2102.01 RS Neb.; or
         (d)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
section 18-2715 RS Neb. (Ref. 19-926 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one (1) year, and he or she shall be eligible for
reelection. The Commission shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting in each
calendar quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may
require the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the
Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending
before the Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the
Chairperson may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three (3)
quarterly meetings may be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall
adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which
shall be a public record. (Ref. 19-927 RS Neb.)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts. (Ref. 19-928 RS Neb.)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in sections 19-930 to 19-933 RS Neb.,
the Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the City,
including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's judgment
bear relation to the planning of such City and including a comprehensive
development plan as defined by section 19-903 RS Neb.;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested City departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within sixty (60) days after the Commission begins consideration
of a matter or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to section
19-916 RS Neb.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the City;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court. (Ref.
19-929 RS Neb.)  
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 468, 1/13/87; 519, 3/13/90; 594, 8/9/94; 608, 2/14/95;
704, 8/11/98; 758, 9/11/01; 942, 2/13/18; 962, 3/9/21)
Cross-reference:
   Local legislation regarding Planning Commission, see Title XVII
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see sections 19-925 through 19-933
RS Neb.
§ 2-202.5 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The City Planning Commission of the city shall be empowered to grant
conditional uses or special exceptions to property owners, using the standards,
procedures, and permitted uses set forth in the zoning code. (Ord. 855, 11/14/
06)
§ 2-203 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (1)   The Governing Body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four (4) members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who
shall serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two (2)
other members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one
can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider,
if appointed, shall be the Board's medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed
a Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary
and quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one (1) year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall
reorganize at the first meeting in December of each year. No member of the
Board of Health shall hold more than one (1) Board of Health position.
   (2)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the Governing Body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any two (2) members of the Board.
   (3)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the
Municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules and
regulations and provide fines and punishments for any violations thereof. It
may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all
laws of the State of Nebraska and ordinances of the Municipality relating to
nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of
the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and businesses as
the Governing Body may direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such other duties as the Governing Body
may, from time to time, designate. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
469, 1/13/87; 679, 7/8/97)
§ 2-204 through 2-210 HOSPITAL AND CLINIC BOARD.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 898, 3/13/12)
§ 2-211 ADVISORY BOARD FOR PARKS AND POOL.
   (A)   Creation of Advisory Board. There is hereby created an Advisory Board
for Parks and Pool, which shall consist of five (5) members, all of whom shall
be residents and qualified voters of the City. The members of the Advisory
Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the Council. The term of
office of said members of the Advisory Board shall be for a period of four (4)
years, with the exception of the first Advisory Board appointed, of which two
members shall be appointed for two (2) years. Terms of the members shall begin
on January 1, thereby providing that terms expire on December 31.
   (B)   Duties of Advisory Board. The Advisory Board shall meet and recommend
actions to Administration regarding the following:
      (1)   Management, operation, and improvement of municipal parks and
fields and facilities for public recreation, including, but not limited to,
swimming pools and baseball, softball, and soccer fields;
      (2)   Promulgation of rules and regulations for the management, use, and
operation of parks, fields, and facilities specified in division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Charges for use of parks, fields, and facilities specified in
division (B)(1) above;
      (4)   Employment of individuals to operate and manage the parks, fields,
and facilities specified in division (B)(1) above; and
      (5)   Any other matter related to the foregoing.
   (C)   Abolition of former Boards. The former Board of Park Commissioners and
the Plainview Swimming Pool Board are hereby abolished. Any authority
previously granted to said Boards is revoked. (Ord. 1000, 9/10/24)
§ 2-212 SWIMMING POOL BOARD; CREATION, DUTIES.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 1000, 9/10/24)
§ 2-213 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 472, 4/14/87)
§ 2-214 CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Definitions.  
      PARK TREES are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes and all other
woody vegetation in public parks having individual names, and all other areas
owned by the City, or to which the public has free access as a park.
      STREET TREES are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other
woody vegetation on land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, avenues or ways within the City.
   (B)   Creation and Establishment of a City Tree Board. There is hereby
created and established a City Tree Board for the City of Plainview, Nebraska,
Pierce County, Nebraska which shall consist of four (4) members, one of whom
shall be a member of the Park Board and three (3) who shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Council Additional advisory members may be
appointed in the discretion of the Mayor.
   (C)   Term of Office. The term of the four (4) persons to be appointed by
the Mayor shall be two (2) years except that the term of two (2) of the members
appointed to the first Board shall be for only one (1) year and the term of two
(2) members of the first Board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his successor shall be
appointed for the unexpired portion of the term. Term shall expire December 31,
and first Board terms shall be shortened to comply with that date.
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   Duties and Responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets
and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City
Council and upon their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official
comprehensive City Tree Plan for the City of Plainview, State of Nebraska. The
Board, when requested by the City Council shall consider, investigate, make
finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming within
the scope of its work.
   (F)   Operation. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a Minute Book of its proceedings. A majority of its
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (G)   Street Tree Species to be Planted. The official Street Tree Species
List for the City of Plainview, Nebraska shall be adopted and periodically
modified by the City Tree Board. No species other than those included in this
list may be planted as Street Trees without written permission of the City Tree
Board.
   (H)   Spacing. The spacing of Street Trees will be in accordance with the
three species size classes listed in the tree list and not trees may be planted
closer together than the following: Small Trees, 30 feet; Medium Trees, 40
feet; and Large Trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or
approved by a landscape architect.
   (I)   Distance From Curb and Sidewalk. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs and curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in the tree list and no trees may be planted closer
to any curb or sidewalk than the following: Small Trees, 2 feet; Medium Trees,
3 feet; and Large Trees, 4 feet.
   (J)   Distance From Street Corners and Fireplugs. No Street Tree shall be
planted closer than thirty-five (35) feet of any street corner, measured from
the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No Street Tree shall be
planted closer than ten (10) feet of any fireplug.
   (K)   Utilities. No Street Tree other than those species listed as Small
Trees in the tree list may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
   (L)   Public Tree Care. The City shall have the right to plant, subject to
subsection (M) herein, prune, maintain and remove avenues, lanes, squares and
public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. This section does not
prohibit the planting of Street Trees by adjacent property owners providing
that the selection and location of said trees is in accordance with subsections
(G) through (K) hereof.
   (M) Public Right-of-Way. The City Tree Board shall plant no trees on public
right-of-way without the consent of the adjacent property owners. Such consent
shall be in writing and shall be maintained as part of the official Tree Board
records.
   (N)   Tree Topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm or City department to top any Street Tree, Park Tree or other tree
on public property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this section at the determination of the City Tree Board.
   (O)   Pruning, Corner Clearance.  Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right-of-way within the City shall prune the branches so that such
branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view
of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight
(8) feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk.
   (P)   Dead or Diseased Tree Removal on Private Property. All trees that are
in a diseased, dying or dead condition are declared to be a public nuisance and
shall be removed by the property owner from the private property on which they
are located. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section,
for the City Police shall have the authority to enter on private property to
inspect the trees thereon. In the event that the trees are diseased or dead,
notice shall be given to the owner of the property by mail or personal service
and such notice shall allow the said owner sixty (60) days to remove the said
tree or trees. In the event that the owner is a nonresident, notice shall be
made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or by certified mail
if the name and address is known. The person charges with the removal may enter
into an agreement with the City that such work be accomplished by the City and
the expense and interest shall be declared to be a lien upon such property from
the time the same becomes due until paid. If the owner fails, neglects or
refuses to enter into such an agreement, or to remove the trees, the City Tree
Board may enter upon the property and proceed to direct the removal of the
trees and the cost thereof shall be chargeable to the property owner. If the
owner fails to reimburse the City after being properly billed, the cost shall
be assessed against the property and certified by the City Clerk to the County
Treasurer to be collected in the manner prescribed by law. In the event the
property owner is a nonresident of the County in which the property lies, the
City shall, before levying any special assessment against that property, send a
copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
   (Q)   Removal of Stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground.
   (R)   Interference with City Tree Board. It shall be unlawful for any person
to prevent, delay or interfere with the City Tree Board, or any of its agents,
while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removing of any Street Trees, Park Trees or trees on private
grounds, as authorized in this section.
   (S)   Arborist's License and Bond. It shall be unlawful for any person or
firm to engage in the business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing
street or park trees within the City without first applying for and procuring
for a license. The license fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) annually
in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be required of any public
service company or City employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public
service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall
first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts
of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) for bodily injury and one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) property damage indemnifying the City or any person injured
or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
   (T)   Review by City Council. The City Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts and decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may
appeal from any ruling or order of the City Tree Board to the City Council who
may hear the matter and make final decision.
   (U)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and not more
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. No. 502, 4/11/89)
§ 2-215 PLAINVIEW COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   There is hereby created the Plainview Community Development Agency pursuant
to section 18-2101.01 RS Neb. 1943.
   The Plainview Community Development Agency shall consist of five (5)
citizens of the City, appointed to staggered terms of five (5) years,
commencing with terms of one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4) and five (5)
years, and appointed by the Mayor.
   The Plainview Community Development Agency shall function as a community
development authority and shall have all the power and authority granted to a
community redevelopment authority set forth in sections 18-2101 to 18-2154 RS
Neb. 1943. (Ord. No. 527, 9/11/90)
§ 2-216 MANOR BOARD; APPOINTMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of a majority of the Council shall
appoint a Manor Board, which shall consist of five (5) members, all of whom are
residents of the City. All appointments to the Board shall be for a term of
three (3) years, with the exception of the first three (3) members, who shall
be appointed for staggered terms of one (1), two (2), and three (3) years, and
two (2) members who shall be appointed for staggered terms of one (1) and two
(2) years. The effect of the staggered terms is to have the terms of two (2)
members expire in June of 1996, and the terms of two (2) members expire in June
of 1997, and the term of one (1) member expire in June of 1998. At the last
regular, adjourned regular or special meeting of the Council in the month of
June of each year hereafter, the Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council,
or a majority of the same, shall appoint such member or members whose terms
have expired from the citizens at large, for the managing of such Public Manor
for a term of three (3) years and from and after the first (1st) day of July if
the years in which he or they shall have been appointed. If the Mayor shall
fail or neglect to appoint such member or members, as above provided, the
Council shall appoint such members, by a majority vote of the Council. Neither
the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be a member of such Board. No
member of the Board shall receive any pay or compensation for his services as a
member of the Board. In cases of Board vacancies, by resignation, removal or
otherwise, the Mayor and Council shall fill such vacancies for the unexpired
term, but in no event shall any appointment to fill such vacancy be in excess
of a period of three (3) years. The Board shall prepare and adopt such rules
and regulations for the efficient management of such Manor as they deem
expedient, PROVIDED THAT said rules shall establish a fiscal year identical to
the fiscal year of the City of Plainview, and said rules shall not become
effective until approved by majority vote of the City Council. (Ord. No. 596,
11/15/94) (Amended by Ord Nos. 625, 6/13/95; 899, 3/13/12)
§ 2-217 MANOR BOARD OFFICERS; POWERS.
   The Manor Board shall, at their first (1st) meeting after their appointment,
and at their first (1st) meeting of July of each year hereafter, organize by
electing from their number a President, Vice-President, and Secretary/Treasurer
and such other officers as may be necessary. Three (3) members shall constitute
a quorum; provided, any motion, resolution or order passed by the Board in
order to be valid shall require the assent of two (2) members of the Board. The
Board shall have the power to adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for
their guidance and for the government of the Manor, as they may deem expedient,
subject to the supervision and control of the Mayor and Council as provided in
this and other sections, and not inconsistent with sections
2-216 through
2-221. They shall have general control of the expenditure of all money
collected or donated to the credit of the Manor Fund, the general control of
all Manor property, and the supervision, care and custody of the grounds, rooms
or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose. The renting or
construction of any Manor building, and any contracts for a term of more than
one (1) year or an expenditure of more than twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) shall require approval by a majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 597, 11/15/94) (Amended by Ord. No. 899, 3/13/12)
§ 2-218 MANOR BOARD; FINANCES.
   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way acquired
for the erection, maintenance or support of such Manor shall be kept for the
use of such Manor, separate and apart from the other funds of the City, and
shall be drawn upon and paid out by the Assistant City Treasurer of Manor
Finance upon vouchers signed by the President of the Manor Board, and
authenticated by the Secretary of such Board, and shall not be used or
disbursed for any other purpose or in any other manner.
   All moneys received by the Board or by any Manor manager or assistant of
said Manor, from any source for the use and support thereof, shall be paid
immediately to the Assistant City Treasurer of Manor Finance, and in no event
shall the same be retained past the end of any one (1) month. The Manor shall
maintain a fiscal year identical to the fiscal year of the City. (Ord. No. 578,
7/22/94) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 598, 11/15/94; 899, 3/13/12)
§ 2-219 MANOR BOARD; MANAGER AND ASSISTANTS, APPOINTMENTS; RULES AND
REGULATIONS.
   The Manor Board shall have power subject to contact approval by the Council
as necessary, to appoint a suitable Manor Manager and assistants, to fix their
compensation, and remove their appointees at pleasure, and shall have the power
to establish such regulations for the government of such Manor as may be deemed
necessary for its preservation. To maintain its usefulness and efficiency they
shall fix and impose by general rules, room rental rates, operating room
charges, costs of meals, and any other  standard and fixed charges for the
public, and shall have and exercise such powers as may be necessary to carry
out the spirit and intent of sections
2-216 through
2-222 in establishing and maintaining a public Manor. Any bylaws, rules or
regulations established by the Manor Board must be approved by the majority
vote of the Mayor and Council. (Ord. No. 599, 11/15/94) (Amended by Ord. No.
899, 3/13/12) 
§ 2-220 MANOR BOARD; REPORTS.
   The Manor Board shall, at each regular monthly City Council meeting, make a
report to the Mayor and Council of the condition of their trust on the last day
of the previous month, showing all moneys received and expended, number of
patient room days utilized, the last annual inventory and a current estimate of
the amount of inventory of expendable property on hand, all items of capital
equipment purchased during the year, and in addition thereto, such statistics,
information and suggestions as may be deemed of general interest or as the
Council may require, which report shall be verified by affidavit of the proper
officers of the Board; and the Manor Board shall make such other reports from
time to time as the Mayor and Council shall request or order. (Ord. No. 600,
11/15/94)  (Amended by Ord. No. 899, 3/13/12) 
§ 2-221 MANOR BOARD; DONATIONS, CONVEYANCES.
   Any person may make any donation of money, land or property for the benefit
of such Manor, and the title of the property may be made to and shall vest in
the City for the public Manor and such property shall thereupon be exempt from
taxation. The Mayor, subject to general requirements on the sale of City-owned
property, shall have the power to convey real estate so received by warranty
deed and in addition, shall have the power to release, upon full payment, any
mortgage constituting a credit to the Manor Fund, outstanding in the name of
such Manor Board, and the signature of the Mayor on any such deed or release
shall be authenticated by the City Clerk. The Mayor and City Clerk in like
manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted by the Council, may renew any
such mortgage. (Ord. No. 601, 11/15/94)  (Amended by Ord. No. 899, 3/13/12) 
§ 2-222 HOSPITAL, MEDICAL CLINIC, NURSING HOME BOARD.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 898, 3/13/12)
§ 2-223 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Public Transportation Board, to be known as
the "Plainview HandiBus Board" which shall consist of four (4) members, all of
whom shall be residents of the City. The Public Transportation Board shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council. The term of  office of
said members of the Board shall be for a period of four (4) years, with the
exception of the first (1st) Board appointed, of which one (1) member shall be
appointed for one (1) year, one (1) member for two (2) years, one (1) member
for three (3) years, one (1) member for four (4) years. Upon the expiration of
the term of office, each member appointed thereafter shall be appointed for a
term of four (4) years. Terms of members shall begin on January 1 and terminate
on December 31 of their fourth (4th) year in office. Each member appointed
shall be a qualified voter of the City of Plainview, Nebraska. The Board shall
reorganize each year at its first (1st) meeting after January 1.
   (B)   In addition to the basic Board, the City Administrator and one City
Council Member appointed by the Mayor shall attend meetings as ex-officio
members.
   (C)   The Public Transportation Board shall have the following powers and
duties; all subject to the supervision, control, and approval of the City
Council:
      (1)   They shall review and recommend all plans and basic rules for the
operation of said HandiBus.
      (2)   They shall interview and recommend all persons required to operate
the HandiBus.
      (3)   They shall recommend all types of use charges.
      (4)   They shall employ or have among their members a person responsible
to account for all income and expenditures and report the same to the City
Council.
      (5)   They shall do anything and everything necessary and requisite for
the efficient operation and maintenance of said HandiBus.
   (D)   All members of the Board shall serve without pay. Three (3) members of
the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business of the
Board. In the event of a vacancy on the Public Transportation Board, the Mayor
shall appoint some person to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term of the
member who has resigned or departed from the Board. (Ord. No. 892, 4/28/11)
ARTICLE 3: AIRPORT AUTHORITY
[Editor's Note: Article 3 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 484, 11/
10/87; Repealed by Ordinance No. 575, 3/15/94]
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISION
§ 2-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS
Article
   
1.   WATER DEPARTMENT
   
2.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
   
3.   FIRE DEPARTMENT AND AMBULANCE
   
4.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
5.   PARKS
   
6.   SWIMMING POOL
   
7.   LIBRARY
   
8.   LANDFILL
   
9.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
   
10.   COGENERATION
   
11.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
   
12.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 3-101 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the City Administrator. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The City Administrator shall have the direct management
and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully carry out
the duties of his office. The City Administrator shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body.
The Governing Body shall set the rates to be charged for services rendered by
ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal
Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 17-531, 17-534, 19-
1305 RS Neb.)
§ 3-102 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   MAIN. The term "main" is hereby defined to be any pipe other than a supply
or service pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying water to, and
dispersing the same in the Municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. The term "separate premise" is hereby defined to be more
than one (1) consumer procuring water from the same service or supply pipe. The
second (2nd) premise may be a separate dwelling, apartment, building, or
structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. The term "service pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe
extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock at or near the lot line to
and beyond the property line of the consumer to the location on the premise
where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. The term "supply pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe tapped
into a main and extending from there to a point at or near the lot line of the
consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock is located.
§ 3-103 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the City Administrator. Water may not be supplied to any house or
private service pipe except upon the order of the City Administrator. (Ref. 17-
537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-104 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The Water Department
may, upon reaching a satisfactory agreement on the cost of additional mains,
furnish water in an area where no main is currently accessible, including
locations up to two thousand feet (2,000') outside the City limits. The rules,
regulations, and water rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for water service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of application on the
part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present
consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to said consumer shall
constitute a contract between the consumer and the Municipality, to which said
contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the
provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the City Administrator or his agent, may
cut off or disconnect the water service from the building or premise or place
of such violation. No further connection for water service to said building,
premise, or place shall again be made save or except by order of said
Administrator or his agent. (Amended by Ord. No. 617, 3/14/95)
§ 3-105 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   Upon approval of the customer's application, within the corporate limits,
the Municipality shall be responsible for tapping the Municipal main and
installing the supply pipe from the main to the customer's lot line, including
corporation cock, curb stop and stop box. The customer shall then be
responsible for installation of all service pipe from the curb stop located on
or near his lot line to the point of disbursement. Outside the corporate
limits, the cost of all lines and installation shall be at the cost of the
customer. The water meter shall be furnished by the Municipality and installed
by the customer.
    In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the City Administrator shall have the
duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two (2)
inspections by the City Administrator. The first (1st) inspection shall be made
when connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second (2nd) inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the customer's responsibility to notify the City
Administrator at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the City Administrator; provided that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 618, 3/14/95)
§ 3-105.5 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; NEW WATER AND SEWER INSTALLATIONS; TRACER
WIRE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council acknowledge that installation of underground
plastic water and sewer lines is now a common occurrence, but further note that
location and tracing of such lines during other underground activities required
in the City is becoming increasingly difficult, time consuming, and expensive.
   (B)   Therefore ALL new or replacement installations of water or sewer lines
shall be accompanied by installation of a tracer wire along with the line, on
the following terms:
      (1)   Wire shall be solid core copper, sized #12 gauge or larger;
      (2)   Wire will be installed along the entire run of each service line,
from the curb stop or connection to the sewer main, to the customers service
entry into the served structure, or other termination point above ground;
      (3)   Installation of the tracer wire shall be the sole responsibility of
the owner of the property; any installation without a tracer wire may be denied
service until the required wire is installed. (Ord. No. 930, 12/8/15)
§ 3-106 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer shall pay a tap fee based on the actual cost to the
Municipality for pipe, fittings, standard meter, and other materials from the
main to the lot line, plus an additional ten percent (10%) surcharge for said
materials. The consumer shall then be required to pay the expense of furnishing
and installing pipe, trenching, and the necessary labor to bring water service
from the said lot line to the place of disbursement, including the cost of
installation of the meter. Outside the corporate limits, the cost of all lines
and installation shall be at the cost of the customer. (Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 619, 3/14/95)
§ 3-107 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the Municipality. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the Municipality at the expense of the Municipality. When meters are
worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the Municipality at the expense
of the Municipality; provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water
meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
City Administrator shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of such
meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested
at the customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number
of times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running two
(2%) percent or more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the
Municipality. The Municipality reserves the right to test any water service
meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair the
Municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer's
water service fixtures at Municipal expense. Should a consumer's meter fail to
register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during the time the
meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same
quarter of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison
exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by
the City Administrator. (Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.)
§ 3-108 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Governing Body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at  the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The Municipal Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money
received by the Municipality on the account of the Water Department. He shall
faithfully account for, and pay to the Municipal Treasurer all revenue
collected by him, taking his receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the
Municipal Clerk and keeping the other on file in the Water Department's
official records. (Ref. 17-540 RS Neb.)
§ 3-109 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the following rates provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
City Administrator to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case he
shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is turned on
again:
   Water Rates Within Corporate Limits
METER FEE, per month            $37.00
Gallons used per month, per 1,000 gallons    $2.00
   Water Rates Outside Corporate Limits
METER FEE, per month            $37.00
Gallons used per month, per 1,000 gallons   $2.00
(Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 285, 7/11/77; 438, 12/11/84; 487,
12/8/87; 525, 8/14/90; 620, 3/14/95; 660, 11/12/96; 766, 3/12/02; 822, 5/11/04;
904, 11/13/12; 912, 10/8/13; 951, 12/10/19; 961, 2/9/21; 1002, 12/17/24)
§ 3-110 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable quarterly at the office of the
Municipal Clerk. The City Administrator shall read or cause to be read water
meters quarterly during the months of January, April, July and October during
which service is used. The City Administrator shall direct the Municipal Clerk
to charge and collect from each customer for the amount of water consumed since
the last examination together with any other charges, properly itemized, due
the Water Department. Bills shall be mailed on the last day of the above named
months and shall be due on the first (1st) day of the following month and shall
be payable by the tenth (10th) of that month. Bills not paid by the tenth
(10th) day of that month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to
be delinquent, as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk shall give a written
notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall demand payment
immediately. In the event that the bill is not paid within seven (7) days after
the sending of said notice, it shall be the duty of the City Administrator to
cut off service at any time; provided, if the delinquent customer is a known
welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to notify the
customer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed
termination. The City Administrator shall assess an additional fee of two
($2.00) dollars in the event that water is shut off for the nonpayment of any
water bill, to compensate the Municipality for the additional hookup necessary
to again provide water service to the delinquent customer.
   All utility bills past due as of the twentieth (20th) day of each month, or
the first business day thereafter shall have added to the amount due a penalty
in the amount of ten (10%) percent of the utility bill less any applicable
sales tax, as a fee to offset the extra costs involved in collection of past
due utility bills. (Ref. 17-542, 18-416 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 306, 2/
13/78)
§ 3-111 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are sixty (60) days or more It shall be the
duty of the Utilities Superintendent on the first (1st) day of June of each
year to report to the Governing Body a list of all unpaid accounts due for
water together with a description of the premise upon which the same was used.
The report shall be examined, and if approved by the Governing Body, shall be
certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as a
special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-538 RS Neb.)
§ 3-112 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SINGLE PREMISE.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his premise, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or attachment without
the written permission of the City Administrator. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any contrivance or
device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the water will not
pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to cause the meter
to register inaccurately. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-113 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONSERVATION PLAN.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the declaration
of a water supply watch, warning or emergency and the implementation of
voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the City in the
event such a watch, warning or emergency is declared.
   (2)   Definitions.  
         CLASSES OF USES.
            (a)   Class 1:  Water used for outdoor watering; either public or
private, for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses,
playing fields, swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of
motor vehicles, boats, trailers, or the exterior of any building or structure.
            (b)   Class 2: Water used for any commercial or industrial,
including agricultural, purposes: except water actually necessary to maintain
the health and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are
engaged in the performance of their duties at their place of employment.
            (c)   Class 3: Domestic usage, other than that which would be
included in Classes  1 or 2.
            (d)   Class 4: Water necessary only to sustain life and the lives
of domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
         CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from the
City's water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made,
or in the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
         WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
            (a)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other
surface drain; or
            (b)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to
defective plumbing.
         WATER. Water available to the City by virtue of its water rights or
any water introduced by the City into its water distribution system, including
water offered for sale at any coin-operated site.
   (3)   Declaration of Water Watch. Whenever the Governing Body of the City
finds that conditions indicate that the probability of a drought or some other
condition causing a major water supply shortage is rising, it shall be
empowered to declare, by resolution, that a Water Watch exists and that it
shall take steps to inform the public and ask for voluntary reductions in water
use. Such a Watch shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by
resolution of the Governing Body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the
existence and end of a Water Watch shall be effective upon their publication in
the official City newspaper.
   (4)   Declaration of Water Warning. Whenever the Governing Body of the City
finds that drought conditions or some other condition causing a major water
supply shortage are present and supplies are starting to decline, it shall be
empowered to declare, by resolution, that a Water Warning exists and that it
will recommend restrictions on nonessential uses during the period of Warning.
Such a Warning shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution
of the Governing Body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning
and ending of the Water Warning shall be effective upon their publication in
the official City newspaper.
   (5)   Declaration of Water Emergency. Whenever the Governing Body of the
City finds that an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water supply
needed for essential uses, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution,
that a Water Supply Emergency exists and that it will impose mandatory
restrictions on water use during the period of Emergency. Such an Emergency
shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the Governing
Body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a Water
Supply Emergency shall be effective upon their publication in the official City
newspaper.
   (6)   Voluntary Conservation Measures. Upon the declaration of a Water Watch
or Water Warning as provided in sections (3) and (4) above, the Mayor (or City
Manager) is authorized to call on all water consumers to employ voluntary water
conservation measures to limit or eliminate nonessential water uses including,
but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
      (a)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses).
      (b)   Washing of automobiles.
      (c)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems,
      (d)   Waste of water.
   (7)   Mandatory Conservation Measures. Upon the declaration of a Water
Supply Emergency as provided in section (5) above, the Mayor (or City Manager)
is also authorized to implement certain mandatory water conservation measures,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (a)   Suspension of new connections to the City's water distribution
system, except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to
agreements entered into by the City prior to the effective date of the
declaration of the Emergency;
      (b)   Restriction on uses of water in one or more classes of water use;
wholly or in part;
      (c)   Restrictions on sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
      (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
      (e)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
      (f)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
   (8)   Emergency Water Rates. Upon the declaration of a Water Supply
Emergency as provided in section (5) above, the Governing Body of the City
shall have the power to adopt emergency water rates by ordinance designed to
conserve water supplies. Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not
limited to:
      (a)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (b)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (c)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
   (9)   Regulations. During the effective period of any Water Supply Emergency
as provided for in section (5) above, the Mayor (or City Manager or Water
Superintendent) is empowered to promulgate such regulations as may be necessary
to carry out the provisions of this section, any Water Supply Emergency
resolution, or emergency water rate ordinance. Such regulations shall be
subject to the approval of the Governing Body at its next regular or special
meeting.
   (10) Violations, Disconnections and Penalties.
      (a)   If the Mayor, City Manager or Water Superintendent, or other City
official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
section or a Water Supply Emergency resolution learn of any violation of any
water use restrictions imposed pursuant to sections (7) or (9) above, a written
notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property where the violation
occurred and the customer of record or any other person known to the City who
is responsible for the violation or its correction shall be provided with
either actual or mailed notice. Said notice shall describe the violation and
order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such
specified time as the City determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If
the order is not complied with, the City may terminate water service to the
customer subject to the following procedures:
         1.   The City shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the City Governing Body or
a City official designated as a hearing officer by the Governing Body.
         2.   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
         3.   The Governing Body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
      (b)   A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid for the re-connection
of any water service terminated pursuant to subsection (a) above. In the event
of subsequent violations, the re-connection fee shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the second re-connection and three hundred dollars ($300.00) for
any additional re-connections.
      (c)   Violations of this section shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in County Court. Any person so charged and found guilty of violating
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a municipal offense. Each
day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial
violation shall be a mandatory fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The
penalty for a second or subsequent conviction shall be a minimum fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00), with a maximum fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   (11) Emergency Termination. Nothing in this section shall limit the ability
of any properly authorized City official from terminating the supply of water
to any or all customers upon the determination of such City official that
emergency termination of water service is required to protect the health and
safety of the public.
   (12) Severability. If any provision of this section is declared
unconstitutional, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the constitutionality of the remainder of the section and its
applicability to other persons and circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(Amended by Ord. No. 806, 3/19/03)
§ 3-114 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or  attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
§ 3-115 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Ref. 17-536 RS Neb.)
§ 3-116 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons within three hundred (300) feet of a water main shall be
required, upon notice by the Governing Body, to hookup with the Municipal Water
System. (Ref. 17-539 RS Neb.)
§ 3-117 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the City Administrator who shall cause the water service
to be shut off at the said premise. If the consumer should fail to give such
notice, he shall be charged for all water used on the said premise until the
City Administrator is otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-537 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-118 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTION.
   The City Administrator or his duly authorized agents, shall have free
access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building to,
or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-119 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
City Administrator.
§ 3-120 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 340, 11/12/79)
§ 3-121 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
(This section was amended and moved to section
3-1101)
[Editor's Note: Sections 3-122 through 3-134 were adopted in their entirety by
Ordinance No. 552, 10/13/92]
§ 3-122 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this policy:
   1.   Air gap separation means the unobstructed vertical distance through the
free atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying
water to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the overflow level rim
of the receptacle, and shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel, but in no case
less than one inch (1").
   2.   Approved tester means a person qualified to make inspections; to test
and repair backflow prevention/cross connection control devices; and who is
approved by "the City".
   3.   Authorized representative means any person designated by "the City" to
administer this cross connection control regulation or ordinance.
   4.   Auxiliary water supply means any water source or system other than "the
City", that may be available in the building or premises. This does not include
other NDOH permitted public water supply systems.
   5.   Backflow means the flow other than the intended direction of flow, of
any foreign liquids, gases, used water or substances into the distribution
system of a public water supply system.
   6.   Backflow prevention device means any device, method, or type of
construction intended to prevent backflow into the public water supply system.
   7.   Consumer means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or agency
or their authorized agent receiving water from "the City".
   8.   Contamination means an introduction of any sewage, process fluids,
chemicals, wastes or any other substance that would be objectionable.
Contamination may be a threat to life or health, or may cause an aesthetic
deterioration, color, taste or odor.
   9.   Cross connections means any physical connection or arrangement between
two (2) otherwise separate piping systems; one of which contains potable water
of the public water supply system, and the second, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or steam, gases, chemicals, or substances whereby there
may be the backflow the second system to the public water supply system. No
physical cross connection shall be permitted between a public water supply
system and an auxiliary water supply system.
   10.   Degree of hazard means an evaluation of the potential risk to public
health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon anyone using the water.
   11.   Health hazard means any condition, device, or practice in the public
water supply system which could create or may create a danger to the health and
well-being of anyone using the water or allow contamination of the water.
   12.   Public water system means the water supply source, distribution system
and appurtenances to the service meter operated as a public utility which
supplies potable water to the consumers' water systems.
   13.   Public water supply system means the public water system and the
consumers' water systems.
   14.   Consumer's water system means all service pipe, all distribution
piping and all appurtenances beyond the service meter of the public water
system.
   15.   Service connection means the terminal end of the service lines from
the public water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service,
then the service connection means the downstream end of the meter.
   16.   NDOH means Nebraska Department of Health.
   17.   Manager means City Manager.
   18.   "The City" shall mean Plainview.
§ 3-123 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; CROSS
CONNECTION CONTROL; GENERAL POLICY.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination.
      2.   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation, or control of
cross connection between the public water supply system and nonpotable water
systems, plumbing fixtures, and industrial process systems or other systems
which introduce or may introduce contaminants into the public water system or
the consumer's water system.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination of the public water
supply system.
   B.   Application. This ordinance shall apply to all consumers' water
systems. "The City" shall also require cross connection control devices at the
service connections of other NDOH permitted public water supply systems served
by "the City".
   C.   Intent. This policy will be reasonably interpreted by "the City". It is
the intent of "the City" to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to
apply the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with
the degree of hazard.
   If, in the judgment of "the City" or its authorized representative, cross
connection protection is required through either piping modification or
installation of an approved backflow prevention device, due notice shall be
given to the consumer. The consumers shall immediately comply by providing the
required protection at his own expense. The City shall inspect and approve all
installations of the required backflow prevention devices. Failure or refusal
or inability on the part of the consumer to provide such protection shall
constitute grounds for the discontinuation of water service to the premises
until such protection has been provided.
§ 3-124 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; CROSS
CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   A.   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connections to the public water supply
system may exist unless such actual or potential cross connections are abated
or controlled to the satisfaction of "the City" or its authorized
representative.
   B.   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public water supply system.
§ 3-125 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; SURVEY
AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to "the
City" or its authorized representative, for the conduction of surveys and
investigations of water use practices within the consumer's premises to
determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections in the
consumer's water system.
   B.   On request by "the City" or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall furnish requested information on water use practices within his premises
and in the consumer's water system.
   C.   On request by "the City" or its authorized representative, the consumer
shall conduct periodic surveys, at least one (1) time every five (5) years, of
water use practices on the premises of the consumer's water system to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross connections. The consumer shall
provide the survey results to "the City" or its authorized representative.
§ 3-126 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; WHERE
PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   A.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where, in the
judgment of "the City" or its authorized representative or the NDOH, actual or
potential cross connections exist. The type and degree of protection required
shall be commensurate with the degree of hazard and/or type of contamination
that may enter the public water supply system.
   B.   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow
retention device shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgment of "the City" or its authorized representative
or the NDOH, the nature and extent of activities on the premises, or the
materials used in connection with the activities, or material stored on the
premises, would present a health hazard or contamination of the public water
supply system from a cross connection. This includes but it not limited to the
following situations:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is acceptable to "the City" or its authorized representative
and the NDOH.   
      2.   Premises having internal plumbing arrangement which make it
impractical to ascertain whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspection for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises, which due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modifications or expansion.
      6.   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system, or where a cross connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters.
      7.   Premises where toxic or hazardous materials are handled.
   C.   The following types of facilities fall into one (1) or more of the
categories or premises where an approved air gap separation or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device may be required by "the City" or its
authorized representative or the NDOH to protect the public water supply and
must be installed at these facilities unless all hazardous or potentially
hazardous conditions have been eliminated or corrected by other methods to the
satisfaction of "the City" or its authorized representative and NDOH:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings;
      2.   Testing laboratories, film laboratories, film development
facilities;
      3.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or storm water
pumping stations;
      4.   Food or beverage processing plants;
      5.   Chemical plants;
      6.   Metal degreasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, dye and
metal processing or productions;
      7.   Chemical and petroleum processing or storage plants;
      8.   Car washes, automobiles servicing facilities;
      9.   Lawn irrigation systems and swimming pools;
      10.   Laundries and dry cleaners;
      11.   Packing houses;
      12.   Power plants;
      13.   Premises having radioactive materials such as laboratories,
industries, hospitals;
      14.   Rendering plants;
      15.   Premises having water recirculating system as used for boilers or
cooling system, cooling towers; chill water system;
      16.   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feedyards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stockyards, pet grooming salons;
      17.   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, health clubs;
      18.   Fire suppression systems;
      19.   Multistoried buildings greater than three (3) stories in height;
      20.   Schools, universities, colleges;
      21.   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross connection;
      22.   Bulk water loading facilities;
      23.   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
      24.   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites.
§ 3-127 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; LAWN
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 733, 3/9/00)
§ 3-128 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; BACKFLOW
PREVENTION DEVICES.
   A.   Any backflow prevention device required by this ordinance shall be of a
model or construction approved by "the City" or its authorized representative
and NDOH.
      1.   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the
diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the
vessel, but in no case less than one inch (1").
      2.   Double check valve assemblies or reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention devices shall appear on the current list of approved backflow
prevention devices established by the NDOH, unless the device was installed at
the time this regulation/ordinance was passed and complies with required
inspection and maintenance. No device shall have gasketed fittings or require
special tools for maintenance.
§ 3-129 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
INSTALLATION.
   A.   Backflow prevention devices required by this policy shall be installed
at a location and in a manner approved by "the City" or its authorized agent.
All devices shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
   B.   Backflow prevention devices installed at the service connection shall
be located on the consumer's side of the water meter, as close to the meter as
is reasonably practical, and prior to any other connection.
   C.   Backflow prevention devices shall be conveniently accessible for
maintenance and testing, (no more than five feet (5') above floor), protected
from freezing, and where no part of the device will be submerged or subject to
flooding by any fluid. All devices shall be installed according to
manufacturers' recommendations.
§ 3-130 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   A.   The consumer is required by this ordinance to inspect, test, and
overhaul backflow prevention devices in accordance with the following schedule
or more often as determined by "the City" or its authorized representative.
      1.   Air gap separation shall be inspected at the time of installation
and checked by owner monthly.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every twelve (12) months
thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned, and
repaired whenever needed at least every five (5) years.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every twelve (12) months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected
internally, cleaned, and repaired whenever needed and at least every five (5)
years.
   B.   Inspections, tests, and overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall
be made at the expense of the consumer and shall be performed by an approved
tester.
   C.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this policy are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced without delay at the
expense of the consumer.
   D.   The consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections, and
repairs. All records of inspections, tests, repairs, and overhauls shall be
provided within thirty (30) days of completion to "the City" or its authorized
representative.
   E.   All backflow prevention devices shall have a tag showing the date of
the last inspection, test, or overhaul or other maintenance.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by "the
City" or its authorized representative.
§ 3-131 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   The City or its authorized representative shall deny or discontinue the
water service to any premises or any consumer wherein any backflow prevention
device required by this policy is not installed, tested, and maintained in a
manner acceptable to "the City" or its authorized representative, by deadline
stated in section
3-133, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
is in compliance with this cross connection regulation/ordinance to the
satisfaction of "the City" or its authorized representative.
§ 3-132 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION;
LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The Manager or his authorized representative shall be relieved from personal
liability. The City shall hold harmless the Manager or his authorized
representative when acting in good faith and without malice, from all personal
liability for any damage that may occur to any person or property as a result
of any act required or authorized by this title, or by reason of any act or
omission of the Manager or his authorized representative in the discharge of
his duties hereunder. Any suit brought carrying out the provisions of the title
shall be defended by the City or the City's insurance carrier, if any, through
final determination of such proceeding.
§ 3-133 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; SCHEDULE
OF DEADLINES FOR COMPLIANCE.
   A.   High hazard (as defined by Nebraska State regulations). One (1) year
from date of the ordinance.
   B.   Low hazards ( as defined by Nebraska State regulations). Two (2) years
from date of this ordinance.
   C.   New construction: At time of water service connection.
§ 3-134 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; DEVICES.
   The following devices are recognized for cross connection control and
backflow prevention by the NDOH:
AIR GAP
   Gap must be two (2) pipe diameters (in no instance less than one inch {'
{'}1"{'}'}). Must be inspected annually. Satisfactory for any material.
Whenever practical the control method of choice.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER.
   Contains two (2) specifically designed, soft seated, independently acting
check valves with a reduced pressure zone (with relief valve) between the two
(2) checks. Shut off valves before and after the device. Satisfactory for most
toxic materials. Significant pressure loss (10 psi or more). Must be tested and
inspected annually. Repaired as necessary.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY
   Contains two (2) soft seated independently acting check valves in series.
Shut of valves before and after device. Adequate for nontoxic applications
only. Minor pressure loss. Must be inspected and tested annually. Repaired as
necessary.
PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER
   Must be installed a minimum of twelve inches (12") above highest point of
usage. No backpressure, only backsiphonage. Can operate under constant
pressure. Shut off valve can be located beyond the vacuum breaker. Must be
inspected and tested annually. Repaired as necessary.
ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER
   Must be installed a minimum of six inches (6") above highest point of usage.
No backpressure, only backsiphonage. Not for use under constant pressure. Shut
off valve must be located ahead of vacuum breaker. No downstream valves. Must
be inspected annually and repaired as necessary.
§ 3-135 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS, AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES OR
CONTAMINATING FACILITIES UNLAWFUL.
   From and after the effective date of this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill and/or operate any of
the following facilities within the corporate limits of the City of Plainview,
without first having obtained the proper permit from the Governing Body of the
City of Plainview: Sewage lagoon; Absorption or disposal field for water;
Cesspool; Dumping grounds; Feedlot; Livestock pasture or corral; Chemical
product storage facility; Petroleum product storage facility; Pit toilet;
Sanitary landfill; Septic tank; Sewage treatment plant; Sewage wet well. On or
after November 21, 2002, no new water wells of any type shall be drilled or
operated within the corporate limits, with the exception of closed loop systems
used for heating and cooling. Closed loop systems shall be subject to setbacks
and permits as otherwise set forth in this code. (Ord. No. 659, 10/8/96)
(Amended by Ord. No. 788, 11/12/02)
§ 3-136 WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES; PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in section 3-135, the owner of property on which the proposed facility
is to be located, must make application on the proper form provided by the
Governing Body of the City of Plainview. Such application must be presented to
the Plainview City Council at any regular or special meeting. After reviewing
the application of any person desiring to drill or operate any of the above-
described facilities, then the Plainview City Council must approve or deny said
permit. (Ord. No. 659, 10/8/96)
§ 3-137 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE
FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES; PROHIBITED.
   Under no circumstances shall the Plainview City Council approve any permit
to drill or operate any of the above-described facilities within the below-
referenced number of feet from the City of Plainview Municipal water wells:
   Potable Water Well                      1,000 feet
   Any Other Well                      1,000 feet
   Sewage Lagoon                      1,000 feet
   Absorption or Disposal Field for Water              500 feet
   Cesspool                          500 feet
   Dumping Grounds                       500 feet
   Feedlot or Feedlot Runoff                    500 feet
   Livestock Pasture or Corral                 500 feet
   Chemical Product Storage Facility              500 feet
   Petroleum Product Storage Facility              500 feet
   Pit Toilet                          500 feet
   Sanitary Landfill                       500 feet
   Septic Tank                          500 feet
   Sewage Treatment Plant                    500 feet
   Sewage Wet Well                       500 feet
(Ord. No. 659, 10/8/96)
§ 3-138 WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES; PENALTIES AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   In the event any of the above-described facilities are installed or operated
without first having obtained a permit from the City of Plainview and/or within
a designated number of feet from the Plainview Municipal Wells, then such
facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the Governing Body shall abate such
facility as a public nuisance pursuant to Chapter 4, Section
4-303 of the Plainview Municipal Code. In addition thereto, any person
violating any of the terms of sections
3-135 through
3-137 is hereby determined to be "Guilty" of a Class III Misdemeanor as the
same is defined by Nebraska Revised Statutes. The penalty for such violation
shall be that as defined by the Nebraska Revised Statutes for the violation of
a Class III Misdemeanor. (Ord. No. 659, 10/8/96)
§ 3-139 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (1)   Definition: WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and subsurface
area surrounding a water well or well field supplying a public water system,
through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such
water or well field.
   (2)   The City of Plainview hereby designates a Wellhead Protection Area for
the purpose of protecting the community water supply system. The boundaries of
the Wellhead Protection Area are designated in a map prepared by Nebraska
Department of Environmental Quality, dated November 2003, which is attached to
the original Ordinance 821 and incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. No. 821,
5/11/04)
ARTICLE 2: SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 3-201 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (1) The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through
the City Administrator.
   (2)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the Municipality, the Governing Body may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law on
the taxable value of all taxable property in the Municipality. The revenue from
the tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall be
used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system.
   (3)   The City Administrator shall have the direct management and control of
the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the office, and
shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision and review of
the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-149, 17-925.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 705,
8/11/98)
§ 3-202 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Article. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The term "Biological Oxygen Demand" as used in
this Code, shall mean and include the quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty (20o) degrees C., expressed in parts per million by
weight.
   GARBAGE. The term "Garbage" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
solid wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food and
produce.
   pH. The term "pH" as used in this Code, shall mean and include the logarithm
of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of
solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. The term "Properly Shredded" as used in this Code, shall
mean and include shredding to such a degree that all particles will be carried
freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no
particle larger than one half (½") inch in diameter.
   SANITARY SEWER. The term "Sanitary Sewer" as used in this Code, shall mean
and include a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The term "Sewage" as used in this Code, shall mean and include a
combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments together with such ground, surface,
and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. The term "Sewer System" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of
sewage.
   STORM SEWER. The term "Storm Sewer" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include a sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but excludes sewage
and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The term "Suspended Solids" as used in this Code, shall
mean and include solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
immersion in water, sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. The term "Trap" as used in this Code, shall mean and include a fitting
or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or gas through a pipe
without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste through it.
§ 3-203 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the Sewer System shall make an
application therefor to the City Administrator. Sewer service may not be
supplied to any house or building except upon the order of the City
Administrator. (Ref. 17-149 RS Neb.)
§ 3-204 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the Municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the City Administrator or his
agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or premise
of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said building or
premise shall again be made save or except by order of the City Administrator
or his agent.
§ 3-205 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the City Administrator the property owner, occupant,
or lessee of any premise within three hundred (300') feet of any sewer main
shall without delay cause the said building to be connected with the Sewer
System and equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter
erected shall be connected with the Sewer System at the time of its
construction. In the event that any property owner, occupant, or lessee shall
neglect, fail, or refuse, within a period of ten (10) days after notice has
been given to him to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper
in or of general circulation in the Municipality, to make such connection, the
Governing Body shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the
cost thereof against the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in
the manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Ref. 17-149, 17-149.01 RS Neb.)
§ 3-206 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two (2) or more houses be allowed to make
such connections through one (1) pipe. (Ref. 18-503 RS Neb.)
§ 3-207 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the City Administrator who shall cause the sewer service
to be shut off from the said premise. If the customer should fail to give
notice, he shall be charged for that period of time until the City
Administrator is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
§ 3-208 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   Upon the approval of his application, the customer shall be responsible for
all installation of sewer service from the Municipal main to the premises to be
served. The Municipality shall install all Municipal mains.
In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the City Administrator shall have the
duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations or
repairs of pipes require two (2) inspections by the City Administrator. The
first (1st) inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete
and before the pipes are covered. The second (2nd) inspection shall be made
after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is the customers
responsibility to notify the City Administrator at the time the work is ready
for each inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and
strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the City Administrator; Provided, that the said
rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
Governing Body.
   All sewer pipe from the Municipal main to the lot line of the customer shall
be of clay tile construction approved by the City Administrator. Sewer pipe
from the lot line to the premises served may be of any type approved by the
City Administrator.
§ 3-209 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his application for sewer service, shall pay
to the Municipal Clerk an inspection fee of two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50)
to compensate the Municipality for the expense of inspecting the sewer
installation. The customer shall then be required to pay the expense of
installation from the main to the premises to be served.
§ 3-209.01 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONNECTION FEES; ADDITIONAL FEES
IN CERTAIN SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AREAS.
   In addition to other connection fees required by this Article, in an area
where special assessments have been imposed for sewer construction, any
property served but not previously subjected to payment of special assessments
shall pay an additional connection fee as follows:
   1.   Upon connection to the line created in the special assessment project,
the City Administrator shall collect a fee at ten ($10.00) dollars per foot,
for each foot that the connecting property abuts the special assessment
project.
   2.    This fee shall be payable as are any other connection fees, to the
City of Plainview, for deposit in the account designated for the receipt of
connection fees.
(Ord. No. 363, 1/12/81)
§ 3-210 MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM; REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which
is within the Municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains to
repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is
broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner's duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the City
Administrator may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection. (Ref. 18-1748 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
432, 9/11/84)
§ 3-211 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; CLASSIFICATION.
   The Governing Body may classify customers of the Municipal Sewer Department
for the purpose of rental fees; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. (Ref. 17-925.02 RS Neb.)
§ 3-212 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged the following
rates for the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall
be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time:
Residential Customers, per month   $23.00, plus $2.50/1,000 gallons, based on
winter usage
Commercial Customers, per month   $29.00, plus $2.50/1,000 gallons, based on
winter usage
Non-resident Customers:
   Any sewerage system user located outside the corporate limits shall pay at a
rate which is exactly double the above rates, depending upon what type of
service is used by said user.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 286, 7/11/77; 439, 12/11/84; 476, 9/8/87;486, 12/8/87;
524, 8/14/90; 767, 3/12/02; 822, 5/11/04; 861, 9/12/07; 905, 11/13/12; 913, 10/
8/13; 952, 12/10/19: 1003, 12/17/24)
§ 3-213 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Municipal Clerk shall have the duty of collecting the rental fees of the
customers of the Sewer Department quarterly on the last day of March, June,
September and December. Bills shall be sent on that date and shall be due and
payable until the tenth (10th) day of the following month. Bills paid after the
tenth (10th) shall be considered delinquent. Upon being deemed delinquent, the
Municipal Clerk shall proceed to give notice to the delinquent customer and
demand payment immediately. In the event the said bill is not paid within seven
(7) days after sending such written notice, the City Administrator shall
proceed to disconnect the water service immediately; provided, if the
delinquent customer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the
Municipal Clerk to notify the customer and the County Welfare Department by
certified mail of the proposed termination.
   All utility bills past due as of the twentieth (20th) day of each month, or
the first business day thereafter shall have added to the amount due a penalty
in the amount of ten (10%) percent of the utility bill less any applicable
sales tax, as a fee to off-set the extra costs involved in collection of past
due utility bills. (Amended by Ord. No. 306, 2/13/78)
§ 3-214 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage, or
unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer. Except as
hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any
of the following described waters or wastes into the Municipal Sewer System:
   1.   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
(150) degrees F.
   2.   Water or waste which may contain more than one hundred (100) parts per
million by weight of fat, oil or grease.
   3.   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid, or gas.
   4.   Garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   5.   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper, or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flowin the sewer system.
   6.   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere with
or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans, animals,
or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage treatment
plant.
   7.   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual attention
or expense is required to handle such materials.
   8.   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment, and personnel of the Municipal Sewer Department.
   9.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
(Ref. 17-145 RS Neb.)
§ 3-215 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand the City
Administrator may require the said customer to install interceptors or other
preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of
the waste to within such maximum limits as he shall prescribe subject to the
review of the Governing Body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be
purchased and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation
at the customer's expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a
special agreement or arrangement between the Governing Body and an industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or
other charges.
§ 3-216 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the Sewer System any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the Sewer System.
§ 3-217 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
   The chief sewer official or his authorized agents, shall have free access at
any reasonable time to all parts of each premise and building which is
connected with the Sewer System to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
violations of this Article therein.
§ 3-218 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are sixty (60) days or more delinquent in the payment of
sewer rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on the first
(1st) day of June of each year to report to the Governing Body a list of all
unpaid accounts due for sewer service together with a description of the
premise served. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the Governing
Body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk to be
collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-925.01 RS
Neb.)
ARTICLE 3: FIRE DEPARTMENT AND AMBULANCE
§ 3-301 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and Firemen. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed
by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times
in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer.
   In addition to the above, the Fire Department is authorized to enter into
agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District for the mutual aid and
protection of the residents of both the Municipality and Rural Fire District.
The agreement so entered, shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
for public inspection. (Ref. 17-147, 17-718, 17-953 RS Neb.)
§ 3-302 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his duty to
inform the Governing Body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other
apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the Governing
Body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the
said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall
be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Governing Body at the regular
meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the Governing Body
of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements recommended
by him.
§ 3-303 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; AMBULANCE SQUAD MERGER; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint
no more than 25 members for each fire department company subject to the review
and approval of the City Council. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
The Municipal Ambulance Squad, established under Chapter 5 RS Neb. 1996, as
amended, relating to Emergency Medical Services, shall be and hereby is merged
with the Municipal Fire Department, as a separate Company thereof, to be known
as the EMS Division. The Ambulance Squad may maintain a separate budget within
the general Fire Department operations.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or the laws of
the State of Nebraska.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the city for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and other
benefits. The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age sixty-five (65) covering the lives of all of
the City’s active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any
such person serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire
protection district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first
municipality or district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a
minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the
option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at
age sixty-five (65). The coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any
individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire Department
of the City.  (Ref. 35-108 RS Neb.)
   (F)   For purposes of section 33-139.01 RS Neb., volunteer firefighters and
rescue squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not
be deemed employees of the City. (Ref. 33-139.01 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 454, 11/12/85; 715, 9/10/98; 811, 3/9/03)
§ 3-304 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the Municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 3-305 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; DISTANT FIRES.
   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body as rural equipment may
be used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
§ 3-306 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the Municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the Municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body.
§ 3-307 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining
property. The said officials may direct the Municipal firefighters to remove
any building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of
any fire, and the official in charge of the fire fighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
§ 3-308 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; IMPERSONATING FIREMEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a fireman by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a fireman for the purpose of
obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit
the theatrical representation of a fireman for bona fide entertainment purposes
when there is no intent to defraud. (Ref. 28-609 RS Neb.)
§ 3-309 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects, or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 3-310 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; POWER OF ARREST.
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the fire fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself in a
noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally vested with
the usual powers and authority of Municipal Policemen to command all persons to
assist them in the performance of their duties.
§ 3-311 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the Municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
fifty ($50.00) dollars. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such
officers shall especially make an investigation and report as to whether such
fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation
shall be begun within two (2) days of the occurrence of such fire and the State
Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation
whenever he deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the
investigation of fires occurring within the Municipality shall immediately
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one (1) week of the occurrence
of the fire, furnish him with a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire, and such further information as he may call
for. (Ref. 81-506 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 4: POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 3-401 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   (1)   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such
further number of regular policemen as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council.
   (2)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the Department. The Chief of Police shall:
      (a)   Prepare and submit a monthly report to the City Council, detailing
the month's activity of the Police Department, along with progress on and
status of any specific matters assigned by the Mayor and Council; and
      (b)   Attend each regular meeting of the Mayor and City Council to
discuss or answer questions on his report or any other matters coming before
the Council that involve any member of the Police Department.
   (3)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. There shall be a proper police force at all fires. The
Department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and
defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places, and residences of the
Municipality. The Department shall execute, or cause to be executed, the
processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be brought before the
proper court for trial as speedily as possible.
   (4)   The Chief of Police and all regular and special policemen shall become
thoroughly conversant with the laws of the Municipality, and shall see that the
same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person
or persons for violation of the same. (Amended by Ord. No. 847, 2/14/06)
§ 3-402 POLICE DEPARTMENT; ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the City shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the City, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the City
Prison, County Jail or other place of confinement to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer. (Ref. 17-118 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Every City law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the City or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the City.
   (D)   Any City law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any City law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any City law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within twenty-five (25)
miles of the boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest
and detain that person and return that person to the officer's primary
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any City law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the City, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in section 13-1802 RS Neb.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of sections 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02 RS Neb., a City law enforcement officer has the power and authority
to do any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer's primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer's primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer's primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of sections 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02 RS Neb.. (Ref. 29-215 RS Neb.)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division. (Ref. 81-829.65 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 609, 2/14/95) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 706, 8/11/98; 3-402, 5/8/
12; 942, 2/13/18)
§ 3-403 POLICE DEPARTMENT; POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY;
NOTICE AND HEARING; DETERMINATION.
   (1)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
   (2)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified by of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the Municipal
Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council
shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than twenty days
after the filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City Council shall
give the police officer written notice of the hearing not less than seven nor
more than fourteen days prior to the hearing.
   (3)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
      (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
      (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
      (c)   To be represented by counsel.
   (4)   Not later than thirty days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge.
The failure of the City Council to act within thirty days or the failure of a
majority of the elected Councilmembers to vote to reverse or modify the
disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge shall be
construed as a vote to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its
determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the
challenged disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge was
necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police
Department in the performance of its duties under the state statutes.
   (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or
disobedience of orders. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 640, 2/13/96)
§ 3-404 CONTINUING EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS; COURSE OFFERINGS.
   (1)   In order to maintain his or her professional status and serve the law
enforcement profession, the community, and the residents of Nebraska, each law
enforcement officer shall attend at least twenty (20) hours of continuing
education courses in the areas of criminal justice and law enforcement during
each calendar year beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31. A law
enforcement officer is not required to meet the continuing education
requirements in the year in which he or she first becomes fully certified.
   (2)   Continuing education courses may be offered in the form of seminars,
advanced education which may include college or university classes,
conferences, instruction conducted within the law enforcement officer's law
enforcement agency, or instruction conducted over the Internet, except that
instruction conducted over the Internet shall be limited to ten (10) hours
annually, and shall be of a type which has application to and seeks to maintain
and improve the skills of the law enforcement officer in carrying out his or
her duties and responsibilities. (Ord. No. 908, 5/14/13)
ARTICLE 5: PARKS
§ 3-501 MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Parks and other
recreational areas through the Board of Park Commissioners. The Governing Body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance
of the Municipal Park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the Municipal Parks
and other recreational areas of the Municipality. (Ref. 17-948 thru 17-952 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-502 MUNICIPAL PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the Municipal Parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the Municipal Parks or other public grounds.
ARTICLE 6: SWIMMING POOL
§ 3-601 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Swimming Pool through the
Swimming Pool Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the management, maintenance, and improvements of the Swimming Pool may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Swimming Pool Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds
of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property
and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Swimming Pool.
The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Swimming Pool Board shall have the power and authority to hire
and supervise the Swimming Pool Manager and such employees as they may deem
necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations for the operation of the
Swimming Pool as may be proper for its efficient operation. (Ref. 17-948, 17-
951, 17-952 RS Neb.)
§ 3-602 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Swimming Pool may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the Swimming Pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the Municipal Swimming
Pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Swimming Pool
for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a
reasonable manner; Provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit
or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin
in the classification of persons for admission charges. (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.)
§ 3-603 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; RENTALS.
   The Swimming Pool Board shall have the authority to rent the Municipal
Swimming Pool to such organizations and other persons as they may in their
discretion see fit. The Board shall prescribe rules and regulations for such
rentals and shall require an appropriate number of qualified lifeguards to be
in attendance during the rental period. Such fees and other costs shall be on
file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and posted in a conspicuous place at
the Municipal Swimming Pool.  (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.)
§ 3-604 MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Swimming Pool Board shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the Swimming Pool and
for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable penalties for
the violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 7: LIBRARY
§ 3-701 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Library through the Library
Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the Library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the Library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. (Ref. 51-201, 51-202, 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-702 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the Library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or
duplicate books so disposed of. (Ref. 51-207 RS Neb.)
§ 3-703 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the Municipal Library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure
to return a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in
civil action in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said
assessments. (Ref. 51-205, 51-214 RS Neb.)
§ 3-704 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the Library
shall forfeit and pay to the Library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-705 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the Library, without the consent of
the Librarian, or an authorized employee of the Library. Any person removing a
book from the Library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-706 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; COST OF USE.
   The Municipal Library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
Municipality. The Librarian may exclude from the use of the Library and reading
rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules
and regulations established for the government thereof. (Ref. 51-201, 51-212 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-707 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the Library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue. (Ref. 51-209 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 8: LANDFILL
§ 3-801 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Landfill through the
Landfill Caretaker. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Landfill may each
year levy a tax not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Landfill Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Landfill Caretaker shall have the direct management and control
of the Municipal Landfill and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his
position. The Landfill Caretaker shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Landfill subject
to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall
provide by ordinance for the management and operation of the Landfill and shall
set the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and file the
same in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time. (Ref. 19-2101 thru 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 3-802 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL; STATE REGULATION.
   The Municipality shall apply for a license to operate the Municipal
Landfill. Application shall be made to the Department of Environmental Control
on forms provided by the Department. No fee shall be charged for such
licensing. Each license so issued shall expire on October 1, following the date
of issuance. It shall be the duty of the Landfill Caretaker to comply with the
rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of Environmental Control for
the use and operation of the Municipal Landfill. (Ref. 81-1517, 81-1519 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-803 MUNICIPAL LANDFILL; RATES.
   (A)   All material not priced below “per item” must be weighed on certified
scales and scale tickets provided to the city.
   (B)   The rates for the Municipal Landfill sites shall be set as follows:
      C and D site:
      (1)   Base for construction debris except concrete:
         (a)   Twenty-five dollars per ton or .0125 per pound if below one ton;
         (b)   Five dollar minimum; and
         (c)   At the discretion of the operator on site, a “pickup load” may
be accepted without scale tickets for a charge of $10 and “1/2 pickup load” may
be accepted for a charge of $5.
      (2)   Appliances and “white goods”:
         (a)   Ten dollars each/window air, TV, microwave, washer, dryer,
stove, refrigerator, and the like; and
         (b)   Additional $30 for each item with Freon in it.
      (3)   Concrete: $5 per ton.
      (4)   Scale fees will be added to the fee based on material or tonnage.
      (5)   Any billing not paid within 30 days shall be subject to a 10% late
payment surcharge.
      (6)   Trees and brush from within city limits: no charge. (Ord. No. 877,
6/16/09)
ARTICLE 9: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
§ 3-901 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; OWNERSHIP.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Electrical System through
the City Administrator. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Electrical
System may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer. The City Administrator shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Electrical System and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. He shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the Electrical System
subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. The Governing Body
shall by ordinance set the rates to be charged for services rendered and shall
file the same in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time. (Ref. 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906, 17-909 RS Neb.)
§ 3-902 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The Municipality through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, its Electrical Department may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations,
and rates for electric service, hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by
the Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application
on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
Municipality, to which both parties are bound. If a customer should violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the Electrical Department may hereafter adopt, the City Administrator, or his
agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the building or
place of such violation and no further connection of electric service for such
building or place shall again be made save or except by order of the City
Administrator or his agent.
§ 3-903 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; CONSUMER'S APPLICATION; HOOK-UP AND
TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make
application therefor to the City Administrator. Every applicant shall be
required to pay the utility deposit as provided by this Code or have previously
qualified for a refund of the same.
   (B)   Every person or persons making application shall have their original
hook-up connected at no charge upon satisfying the deposit requirement. Any
subsequent move, transfer, or reconnection shall require a $25.00 service
charge if installed during normal working hours and a $50.00 service charge on
weekends and holiday, and after normal working hours.
(Ref. 17-902, 19-2701 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 789, 12/10/02)
§ 3-904 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premise where
service is furnished in his name, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he shall at once inform the City Administrator who shall
cause the electrical service to be shut off from the said premise. If the
consumer should fail to give such notice, he shall be charged for all
electricity used on the said premise until the City Administrator is otherwise
advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-905 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSTALLATION EXPENSE AND OWNERSHIP.
   The expense of installation and ownership of equipment shall be as follows:
   1.   The Municipality shall own, furnish, and install electrical wiring up
to the weather head on the meter loop;
   2.   The meter loop, meter socket, CT's in three phase service, and all
other associated distribution lines or equipment shall be installed, maintained
and owned by the consumer, with the exception of the meter which shall remain
the property of the Municipality and shall be installed by the Municipality in
the meter socket provided by the consumer;
   3.   All new electrical services and old services being replaced shall be
installed on the outside of the building and completely accessible to the
Municipality. In the event that a meter loop is determined to be unsafe or will
not meter accurately, the Municipality shall notify the consumer in writing to
have the problem corrected, and if the problem is not corrected within thirty
(30) days, the Municipality will treat the bill as any other unpaid electrical
utility bill;
   4.   All electrical services shall be approved by the City Administrator or
his representative for meter type and style previous to installation;
   5.   In the event the consumer requests underground service, the City will
furnish the needed underground wire (max. 200 Amp) up to the meter loop; the
consumer shall be required to pay any cost incurred by the Municipality which
would be in addition to the cost of above ground installation. Maintenance and
replacement expense shall be apportioned in the same manner;
   6.    Whenever service is terminated or disconnected for any reason, the
Municipality may remove its property from the consumer's premises.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 473, 5/12/87; 918, 1/14/14)
§ 3-906 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one (1) time each month during
which electrical service is used.
§ 3-907 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Governing Body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. The Utilities
Superintendent shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the
Municipality on the account of the Municipal Electrical System. He shall
faithfully account for and pay over the same to the Municipal Treasurer all
revenue collected by him, taking his receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one
(1) with the Municipal Clerk and keeping the other on file in his official
records. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-908 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; MINIMUM RATES.
   (A)   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided
by ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
City Manager to shut off the electricity in which case he shall not be liable
thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is turned on again.
   (B)   Summer and winter rates. As provided in this section, summer rates
will be for the summer months of June - September and winter rates will be for
the months of October - May.
   (C)   Residential service. This schedule is applicable to all Kwh sales
inside City limits for residential lighting, cooking, electric irons, toaster,
radios, television, ovens, refrigeration, air conditioning and heating, water
heaters and other socket appliances and also small single-phase utility motors
served through a service meter. This schedule is applicable to mobile home
parks.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $12.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1720/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1391/Kwh
   Over 500 Kwh   $0.1322/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $12.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1357/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1271/Kwh
   Over 500 Kwh   $0.1180/Kwh
   (D)   Residential Electric Heat Service. This schedule is applicable to all
Kwh sales for residential homes inside City limits with electric heat as the
primary source of heating. Before electric heat rate is applied, and on
occasions thereafter, an inspection of the heating system will be done by the
City.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $12.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1720/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1391/Kwh
   Next 500 Kwh   $0.1322/Kwh
   Over 1,000 Kwh   $0.1322/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $9.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1156/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1083/Kwh
   Next 500 Kwh   $0.0791/Kwh
   Over 1,000 Kwh   $0.0757/Kwh
   (E)   Rural Residential Service. This schedule is applicable to all Kwh
sales outside City limits for residential lighting, cooking, electric irons,
toaster, radios, television, ovens, refrigeration, air conditioning and
heating, water heaters and other socket appliances and also small single-phase
utility motors served through a service meter. This schedule is applicable to
mobile home parks.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $14.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1858/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1522/Kwh
   Over 500 Kwh   $0.1322/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $14.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1500/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1357/Kwh
   Over 500 Kwh   $0.1180/Kwh
   (F)   Rural Residential Electric Heat Service. This schedule is applicable
to all Kwh sales for residential homes outside City limits with electric heat
as the primary source of heating. Before electric heat rate is applied, and on
occasions thereafter, an inspection of the heating system will be done by the
City.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $14.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1858/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1522/Kwh
   Next 500 Kwh   $0.1322/Kwh
   Over 1,000 Kwh   $0.1322/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $10.00
   First 200 Kwh   $0.1278/Kwh
   Next 300 Kwh   $0.1156/Kwh
   Next 500 Kwh   $0.0791/Kwh
   Over 1,000 Kwh   $0.0757/Kwh
   (G)   Commercial Service (Single Phase). This schedule is applicable to all
Kwh sales to all establishments which are operating as a business and shall
include single phase lighting and power. This schedule will include apartments,
churches, offices, small manufacturers, stores, shops, trailer camps and
similar operations where metered under one name. All service will be at the
system’s standard voltages.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $16.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1581/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1285/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.1147/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.1045/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $16.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1336/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1205/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.1067/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.0999/Kwh
   (H)   Commercial Service (Single Phase) Electric Heat. This schedule is
applicable to all Kwh sales to single phase commercial services with commercial
electric heat. If a separate meter is provided for all commercial electric heat
circuits, the City will add meters and consider as one account. All meters will
be the property of the City regardless of their location. Before the electric
heat rate is applied, and on occasion thereafter, an inspection of the heating
system will be done by the City. All service will be at the system’s standard
voltages.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $16.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1581/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1285/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.1147/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.1045/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $12.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1155/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1037/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.0859/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.0761/Kwh
   (I)   Commercial Service (Three Phase). This schedule is applicable to all
Kwh sales to all establishments which are operating as a business and have
three phase power. This schedule shall include apartments, churches, offices,
care centers, small manufacturers, retail stores, shops and similar operations
where metered under one customer, all at the system’s standard voltage.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $20.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1884/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1541/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.1404/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.1130/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $20.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1572/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1426/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.1330/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.1068/Kwh
   (J)   Commercial Service (Three Phase) Electric Heat. This schedule is
applicable to all Kwh sales to three phase commercial services with commercial
electric heat. If a separate meter is provided for all commercial electric heat
circuits, the City will add meters and consider as one account. All meters will
be the property of the City regardless of their location. Before the electric
heat rate is applied, and on occasion thereafter, an inspection of the heating
system will be done by the City. All service will be at the system’s standard
voltages.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $20.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1884/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1541/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.1404/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.1130/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $15.00
   First 400 Kwh   $0.1302/Kwh
   Next 600 Kwh   $0.1181/Kwh
   Next 5,000 Kwh   $0.0884/Kwh
   Over 6,000 Kwh   $0.0757/Kwh
   (K)   Industrial (Demand). This schedule is applicable to all establishments
which are operating as a business and have three phase power and have 50kW
demand or more for any two consecutive months with an annual usage of 12,500
Kwh/month average. The City will furnish equipment necessary for one
transformation and regulation of power and energy. Service under this schedule
is not applicable to breakdown, standby, auxiliary, resale or shared service.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $25.00
   Summer demand   $9.66/KW
   All kwh energy   $0.0805/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $25.00
   Winter demand   $8.05/KW
   All kwh energy   $0.0680/Kwh
   Minimum Bill: The minimum billing demand charge.
   (L)   Manufacturing Electric Heat and Air Exchange Rate. A separate meter
will be provided for all manufacturing electric heat and air exchange as the
primary source of heat, specifically excluding cooling and air conditioning
systems, as determined by the Municipal Electrical System. All meters will be
the property of the Municipal Electrical System regardless of their location.
All inspection of the circuit by the Municipal Electrical System must be
completed before the Manufacturing Electric Heat and Air Exchange Rate will be
applied.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $25.00
   Summer demand   $9.66/KW
   All kwh energy   $0.0805/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $20.00
   Winter demand   $6.67/KW
   All kwh energy   $0.0502/Kwh
   (M) Municipal Buildings. This schedule is applicable to all Kwh sales to all
establishments which are operating as a municipal building and shall include
both single phase and three phase. All service will be at the system’s standard
voltages.
   Summer Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $0.00
   All kwh energy   $0.0775/Kwh
   Winter Rate
   Customer Service Charge   $0.00
   All kwh energy   $0.0775/Kwh
   (N)   Flat Rates. This schedule is applicable to all customers who contract
all Kwh sales for a flat rate. This schedule shall include all small
miscellaneous loads with minimal yearly use where metered under one name. All
service will be at the system’s standard voltages.
   Customer Service Charge   $12.50
   All motors in excess of 25 HP charge   $0.894/hp
   (O)   Effective Date. These rates will be effective for the January 2016
billing.
   (P)   Production Cost Adder. The City may add by resolution to the
individual electric bill covering all rates in section any increase in the cost
of production over and above the price of purchased and/or generated energy
cost as of April 1, 2015. If the purchased and/or generated energy cost should
decrease, the decrease in cost may be deducted from the individual bill.
(Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 275, 10/4/76; 280, 2/14/77; 448,
366, 3/9/81; 7/9/85; 482, 11/10/87; 524, 8/14/90; 562, 8/10/93; 604, 2/14/95;
633, 1/9/96; 690, 11/13/97; 748, 3/13/01; 764, 3/12/02; 765, 3/12/02; 793, 2/
11/03; 829, 10/20/04; 862, 11/13/07; 885, 9/14/10; 903, 11/13/12; 911, 10/8/13;
931, 1/12/16)
§ 3-908.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; MANUFACTURING RATES.  
(Repealed by Ord. No. 829, 10/20/04)
[Editor's Note: Material formerly in this section has been incorporated into
Section 3-908.]
§ 3-908.02 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INCENTIVES FOR ELECTRIC HEAT
INSTALLATIONS
   Installation of electric heat as primary heat source shall qualify for a one
time incentive payment upon completion of the installation and inspection by
the City of Plainview Electric Department personnel or the City Manager.
Payment will be made in the form of a one time check from the City of
Plainview.
Heat Pump Air Source   $150.00
Electric Furnace (Resistance)    100.00
(In addition any incentive offered by other entities shall be passed through to
the customer.)
Commercial and Residential are the same. NO UPGRADE REBATES (just gas to
electric)
(Ord. No. 830 10/20/04)
§ 3-909 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   Electrical fees shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the City
Light Plant. If said fees are not paid within twenty (20) days after the same
become due, the electricity will be turned off in compliance with section 3-121
and not turned on again until all back fees and charges are paid, including any
penalty charge which the Governing Body may, by resolution, prescribe. (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 306, 2/13/78; 339, 11/12/79)
§ 3-910 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RESTRICTED USE.
   The Municipal Electrical System does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment, and machinery  to do so. The City Administrator has
the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any good
and sufficient reason without liability. The Municipality shall use due care
and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the Municipality has no control and the
Municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer's service without preliminary notice. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-911 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; BUILDING MOVING.
   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
Municipal Electrical System, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the City Administrator, who shall then order paid in
advance the actual cost of moving the said wires and such cost shall be paid by
the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All expense of
removing, changing, and replacing the said wires or apparatus of the Electrical
System shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving and any surplus
remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the applicant;
provided, that if in the course of moving the said building or house it becomes
apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional deposit as
deemed necessary may be demanded.
§ 3-912 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; METER IN DISREPAIR.
   In the event that any customer's meter falls out of repair or fails to
register properly, the City Administrator shall charge such customer the same
amount billed one (1) year previous to such disrepair. In the event that there
is no such basis for comparison, the City Administrator shall charge the
customer such amount as he deems is fair both to the customer and the
Municipality.
§ 3-913 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack, or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures, or equipment of the Municipal Electrical System any sign,
poster, advertisement, or banner without written permission from the City
Administrator.
§ 3-914 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; COMPLAINTS.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 340, 11/12/79)
§ 3-915 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the Municipal Electrical System shall, before doing
the said work, give reasonable written notice to the City Clerk and shall
follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe for
doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such
trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper
notice and receiving permission in writing to  do so. Any owner or contractor
hired by an owner may enter into an agreement with the Municipality that such
work be accomplished by or with the assistance of the Municipality and the
expense and interest shall be declared to be a lien on such property from the
time the same becomes due until paid. If the owner fails to reimburse the
Municipality after being properly billed, the costs shall be assessed against
the property and certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Treasurer to be
collected in the manner prescribed by law. Such agreement shall include a
waiver in which the owner and contractor, if applicable, shall hold harmless
the Municipality from any liability arising from the work of the Municipality.
(Amended by Ord. No. 444, 4/9/85)
§ 3-915.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC SYSTEM; TRIMMING TREES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground on which lines
or property of the Electrical System is located, or owners of any lot, piece or
parcel of ground adjacent or abutting any property on which property of the
Electrical System is located shall keep the branches or limbs of trees on their
property trimmed in such a manner to keep the electrical lines free and safe.
   Whenever the limbs or branches interfere with or endanger the lines of the
Electrical System, the Governing Body at any regular or special meeting may
pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or remove said
obstructions, within ten (10) days from the date of said resolution. Within
forty-eight (48) hours of the passage of said resolution, the City Clerk shall
mail a copy of the same to the owner and occupant, by ordinary first class
mail, together with a notice stating that the Municipality will remove said
branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special
assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is not
complied with.
   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 445, 4/9/85)
§ 3-916 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Administrator or his duly authorized agents shall have free access
at any reasonable time to each premise and building to or in which electricity
is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such inspections may
take place at any time. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-917 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Electrical System. (Ref. 28-512 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 10: COGENERATION
§ 3-1001 COGENERATION; PURPOSE.
   In order to comply with sections 201 and 210 of the Public Utility
Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 and with the rules and regulations of the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission pertaining thereto, the following policies
relating to interconnections of the electric system of the Municipality with
cogeneration and small power production facilities, rates for sales of electric
energy to such facilities, and rates for purchases of electric energy from such
facilities are hereby established. (Ord. No. 365, 3/9/81)
§ 3-1002 COGENERATION; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article the following definitions will apply.
   AVOIDED COSTS means the incremental costs to an electric utility of electric
energy or capacity or both which, but for the purchase from qualifying
facilities, such utility would generate itself or purchase from another source.
   COGENERATION FACILITY means a facility which produces electric energy and
steam or other forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for
industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes.
   INTERCONNECTION COSTS means the reasonable costs of connection, switching,
metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions, and administrative
costs incurred by the electric utility directly related to the installation and
maintenance of the physical facilities necessary to permit interconnected
operations with a qualifying facility, to the extent such costs are in excess
of the corresponding costs which the electric utility would have incurred if it
had not engaged in interconnected operations, but instead generated an
equivalent amount of electric energy itself or purchased an equivalent amount
of electric energy or capacity from other sources. (Interconnection costs do
not include any costs involved in the calculation of avoided costs.)
   QUALIFYING COGENERATION FACILITY means a cogeneration facility that meets
the requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regarding
ownership, fuel use, and operating and efficiency standards.
   QUALIFYING SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY means a small power production
facility that meets the requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission regarding ownership, fuel use, fuel efficiency, and reliability.
   SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY means a facility which produces electric
energy solely by the use, as a primary energy source, of biomass, waste,
renewable resources, or any combination thereof totaling not greater than 80
megawatts at one site. (Ord. No. 365, 3/9/81)
§ 3-1003 COGENERATION; INTERCONNECTIONS WITH QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   Qualifying facilities desiring to interconnect with the electric system of
the Municipality shall make application to the Department of Utilities for such
interconnection. Applicants shall use such forms as are prescribed by the
Municipality and shall furnish all information requested.
   The Municipality shall establish reasonable standards to be met by
qualifying facilities to ensure system safety and reliability of interconnected
operations. Such standards may include but shall not be limited to the
following areas: power factor; voltage regulations; fault, overcurrent, and
over- under voltage protection; harmonics; synchronization; and isolation.
   Interconnection costs associated with the interconnection with a qualifying
facility shall be paid for by such qualifying facility. Qualifying facilities
shall be required to execute contractual agreements with the Municipality
before any interconnection is established. (Ord. No. 365, 3/9/81)
§ 3-1004 COGENERATION; RATES FOR SALES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY TO QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities shall be those
current standard rates adopted from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and
City Council which apply to other customers of the utility in the same
classification(s) of electric service. (Ord. No. 365, 3/9/81)
§ 3-1005 COGENERATION; RATES FOR PURCHASES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY FROM QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
   Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities shall be
established by resolution of the Mayor and City Council.
   Such rates shall be just and reasonable to the electric consumer of the
utility and in the public interest, shall not discriminate against qualifying
cogeneration and small power production facilities, and shall be related to
avoided costs; however, in no case is the utility required to pay more than the
avoided costs.
   Standard rates shall be established for purchases from qualifying facilities
with a design capacity of 100 kilowatts or less. Rates for purchases from
qualifying facilities with a design capacity over 100 kilowatts may be standard
rates or may be by individual contracts, the terms of which are fair and
reasonable. (Ord. No. 365, 3/9/81)
ARTICLE 11: UTILITIES GENERALLY
§ 3-1101 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature. (Ref. 70-1602 RS Neb.)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the City, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this City shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven (7) days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and
weekends shall be excluded from the seven (7) days. A public or private utility
company shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of
utility service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Ref. 70-1605 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The notice required by division (A) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's, physician
assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five (5) days of receiving notice under
this section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the
disconnection of the utility's service for a period of at least thirty (30)
days from such filing. Only one (1) postponement of disconnection shall be
required under this division for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due
account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a City utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility. (Ref. 70-1606 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures. (Ref. 70-1607 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The provisions of sections 70-1608 through 70-1614 RS Neb. shall apply
to disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any City utility, one (1) copy of which is on file
in the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in
addition to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as
though set out in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public. (Ref. 70-1615 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 338, 11/12/79) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 433, 9/11/84; 680, 7/8/97; 3-
1101, 12/8/15; 950, 11/13/19; 962, 3/9/21)
§ 3-1102 UTILITIES GENERALLY; METER TESTING.
   Upon the deposit of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars by a utility customer who
believes his or her meter is functioning improperly, the City shall test said
meter. If said meter after testing is found to be  functioning properly, the
twenty-five ($25.00) dollar deposit shall not be refunded to the utility
customer. If said meter after testing is found to be functioning improperly,
the meter shall be replaced, the deposit shall be refunded and an adjustment
made to the utility customer's current bill. Adjustment shall also be made to
previous utility billings, limited to a maximum of one (1) previous billing. A
meter shall be deemed functioning properly, if, upon testing, the meter is
found to be accurate within five (5%) percent of the test reading. Utility
customers shall be defined as any person using electricity or water suppled and
billed by the City of Plainview. (Ord. No. 437, 10/9/84)
§ 3-1103 UTILITIES GENERALLY; UTILITY DEPOSITS, COLLECTION, REFUND, OR WAIVER
PROCEDURE.
   (1)   Unless waived as set out in division (3) below, every applicant for
City utility connection shall be subject to a deposit:
      (a)   In the sum of one hundred fifty ($150.00) dollars; and
      (b)   The applicant shall be entitled to a refund of the deposit as set
out in division (2) below.
   (2)   An applicant's utility deposit shall be refunded when:
      (a)   All services are disconnected and all bills are paid; or
      (b)   The consumer has completed a twelve (12)-month period without a
delinquent notice or insufficient fund check on any City utility service.
   (3)   The utility deposit may be waived by the City Administrator (in the
Administrator's discretion) upon co-signature on the application by a consumer
who has previously qualified for a refund. (Ord. No. 499, 2/14/89) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 735, 6/13/00; 946, 12/11/18)  
§ 3-1104 UTILITIES GENERALLY; RENTAL UNITS.
   (1)   All owners of rental property shall be required to sign an agreement
indicating whether they want the utilities left on or disconnected when a
tenant moves.
   (2)   If the utilities are to be left on, the agreement shall bind the owner
for any utility charges incurred after the tenants have notified the City for a
read out.
   (3)   The making of an application on the part of any applicant or the use
or consumption of utility services by present consumers thereof and the
furnishing of utility services to said consumer shall constitute a contract
between the consumer and the City, of which said contract and both parties are
bound.
   (4)   In the event that a building, premises or place is rental property,
the City shall require the owner of said property, either alone or as co-signer
with the tenant, to sign any written application or contract for utility
services. In the event of failure to timely pay utility service bills by either
the tenant or the owner, either of them shall be fully responsible for said
bills. Any duties or obligations created by the lease of the premises shall be
relevant only between the owner and the tenant and shall not relieve the duty
to pay. However, in any case where the occupant of a property is not the owner,
any deposit shall be held by the City until service has been satisfactorily
terminated. No early refund of deposit shall apply. (Ord. No. 497, 2/14/89)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 910, 9/10/13; 917, 12/10/13)
§ 3-1105 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING,
UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of the Municipality, in such manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to
any instrument by or at which electricity, electric current, gas, or water may
be consumed without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas, or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas, or water service without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality if the service has been disconnected
pursuant to sections 70-1601 to 70-1615 RS Neb.; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas, or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of the Municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist. (Ref. 28-515.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 797, 4/8/
03)
§ 3-1106 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in section 25-
21,275 RS Neb. shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts:
         (a)   Bypassing,
         (b)   Tampering, or
         (c)   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this section
against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
Municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) if
the amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of reasonable
calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under subdivision (2)(a) or (b), the
Municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of section 25-
1801 RS Neb. (Ref. 25-21,276 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
          (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist. (Ref. 25-21,277 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.  (Ref. 25-21,278 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 786, 4/8/03)
ARTICLE 12: PENAL PROVISION
§ 3-1201 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Article
   
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
2.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
   
3.   NUISANCES
   
4.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-101 HEALTH; REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
Municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.) 
§ 4-102 HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief
health officer of the Municipality. It shall be his duty to notify the
Governing Body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
Municipality and its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 4-103 HEALTH; STATE RULES.
   The “Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health,” Department of Health
of the State of Nebraska are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the Municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended. Three (3) copies of each of the said pamphlets are filed at the
office of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902 RS Neb.)
§ 4-104 HEALTH; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
Municipality.
§ 4-105 ADDITION OF FLUORIDE TO CITY’S WATER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city. (Ord. No. 873,
2/10/09)
ARTICLE 2: GARBAGE DISPOSAL
§ 4-201 WASTE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; DEFINITIONS.
   "Commercial" shall mean a site primarily used for commercial or business
purposes. This classification shall also apply to residential rental operations
which: 1) Are not owner occupied; 2) Have four or more rental units; 3) Collect
all rental unit waste in a central location; 4) Consist of a single, contiguous
property; and 5) Are billable for waste disposal purposes in a single bill to
the landlord.
   "Curb Side Pickup" - shall mean normal pickup by Hauler of material in cans
or bags not to exceed 35 gallon capacity, and/or 75 lb. in weight, per item,
set by customer within two feet of the driving surface of the street or alley,
as specified by Hauler.
   "Customer" shall mean an owner and any occupant of any site, within the City
limits of Plainview served by any utilities provided by the City of Plainview.
   "Excessive Pickup" - shall mean above and beyond average service for the
category, in the opinion of the Hauler or the City. Certain items beyond the
normal capability of hauler's equipment may be refused regular pickup, and will
require special arrangements by the owner.
   "Residential" as used in this Article shall mean a site used only as a
personal residence.
   "Residential/Home Occupation Commercial" - a site used as a personal
residence with a home occupation.
   "Transfer station material" shall mean all those items of waste and refuse
which will be accepted at the City's transfer station, including but not
limited to all domestic waste, ashes (when bagged separately in plastic bags),
bottles, cans and newspapers, as specifically defined by resolution of the City
Council.
   "Waste" shall mean all other types and definitions of waste shall apply as
defined in the Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act.
   "White goods" shall mean appliances such a refrigerators, air conditioners,
stoves and freezers.
(Amended by Ord. No. 566, 9/22/93)
§ 4-202 WASTE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL SERVICE,
VIOLATIONS, LIENS.
   (1)   The City has contracted for waste service for residential and
commercial customers and hereby levies a charge for the same on the customer
receiving the service. All basic charges shall be for curb side pickup, as
defined in the Plainview Municipal Code.
   (2)   The charge for waste service shall be established and amended as
necessary by resolution of the City Council, and shall be due and payable on a
monthly basis, first for the period from the 15th of October, 1993 to the 15th
of November, 1993, and monthly thereafter in combination with other utility
billings.
   (3)   Any residential or commercial site which is connected to utility
service but is not occupied and is not generating any waste will not be subject
to a collection charge. Notice of commencement or discontinuation of service
due to new occupant or occupant departure must be received by City at least 30
days before service and responsibility for billing terminates.
   (4)   All waste shall be subject to inspection, at the customer's property
or other site determined by the Hauler, and any improperly disposed waste shall
be returned to the customer and subject the customer to penalties as provided
herein.
   (5)   Accumulation of waste on residential or commercial property, shall
constitute a public nuisance, and subject the customer to prosecution for a
nuisance as provided in the ordinances governing the same.
   (6)   Any amount that becomes delinquent in a customer's waste account shall
become a lien on the real estate for which the service was furnished, in the
same manner as a lien for delinquent utilities.
   (7)   Refusal to pay waste service billings, disposal or attempted disposal
of illegal or unauthorized material in the transfer station, illegal dumping of
waste or any other violations of waste disposal ordinances, resolutions or
regulations shall be punishable by the fines and other remedies provided by the
Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act; and IN ADDITION delinquency in
payment of pickup charges shall result in immediate disconnect of water, sewer,
and electrical service, in the same manner as if a delinquency has occurred in
each of those services. (Amended by Ord. No. 567, 9/22/93)
§ 4-203 SOLID WASTE; HAZARDOUS ITEMS AND ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING OR
DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No person shall put out any of the items specified below to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal.
      (1)   Yard waste from April 1 through November 30 of each year unless
such yard waste has been separated from its source and is put out for separate
collection and delivery to the landfill for the purpose of soil conditioning or
composting under the conditions otherwise specified.
      (2)   Lead-acid batteries.
      (3)   Waste oil.
      (4)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are nonrecyclable. Tires
are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of section 13-2039 RS
Neb.
      (5)   Discarded household appliances.
      (6)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the Environmental Protection Act.
   (B)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the
Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act or any amendments thereof. (Ref.
13-2039 RS Neb.)
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Land disposal includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      (2)   Nonrecyclable tire means a press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic
shaped tire, or a foam pneumatic tire. (Ref. 13-2039 RS Neb.)
      (3)   Waste tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original
intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect. (Ref. 13-2013.02 RS Neb.).
      (4)   Yard waste means grass and leaves. (Ref. 13-2016.01 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 816, 3/9/04)
§ 4-204 GARBAGE; TRASH, AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premise, or any other place in the Municipality, decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
Municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a thirty (30)
gallon capacity and as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be
unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or other public
grounds  any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or rubbish of
any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse to collect
and all persons shall remove the same from their property within twenty-four
(24) hours after being notified to do so by the Municipal Police Chief who
shall represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste,
or refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of
time shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight
cover, or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening. All
persons shall have the contents of their garbage cans removed at least once a
week. (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 4-205 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two (2)
hours after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at
the expense of the Municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the Municipality, nor within one (1) mile thereof, nor in
or above the course of ground water that is used for drinking purposes by the
Municipality or its inhabitants. Such animals may, however, be buried in the
Municipal Dumping Ground. (Ref. 17-114, 17-123, RS Neb.)
§ 4-206 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; AUTHORITY.
   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within the
corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the City shall
remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance. (Ord. No. 492,
11/18/88) (Amended by Ord. No. 976, 3/8/22)
§ 4-207 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NOTICE.; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. The notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing the
notice, the City shall, in addition to other proper remedies, remove the
garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land, streets,
roads, or alleys. (Ord. No. 492, 11/18/86) (Amended by Ord. No. 976, 3/8/22)
§ 4-208 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; NUISANCE.
   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon any
lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health and
safety, the City shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed,
from the lot or land within forty-eight (48) hours after notice by personal
service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with §
4-207 if the garbage or refuse has not been removed. (Ord. No. 492, 11/18/88)
(Amended by Ord. No. 976, 3/8/22)
§ 4-209 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; LIEN.
   Whenever the City removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed,
from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the Mayor, assess the cost of the removal against the lot or land.
(Ref. 18-1752 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No.492, 11/18/88 (Amended by Ord. No. 976, 3/8/
22)
§ 4-210 SOLID WASTE; LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF OF PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (1)   The Governing Body has separately established charges to be paid to it
by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of such charges, a person's premises are deemed
to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the owner and
occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable for the
charges unless the owner or occupant proves to the Governing Body that:
      (a)   The premises are unoccupied; or
      (b)   The solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
ordinances.
   (2)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may be
provided by means of any of the following:
      (a)   A billing receipt or other statement from a duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period;
      (b)   A billing receipt or register tab from a duly permitted transfer
station or disposal facility or landfill for solid waste received during the
applicable billing period; or
      (c)   Such other documentation of proper disposal as may be acceptable to
the Governing Body. (Ref. 13-2020 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 720, 4/8/99)
§ 4-211 TRANSFER STATION AND C AND D SITE; RATES.
   (A)   All material not priced below “per item” must be weighed on certified
scales and scale tickets provided to the City.
   (B)   Rates for the transfer station site shall be set as follows:
      (1)   Only authorized waste allowed;
      (2)   All material collected by City contract hauler (hauler paid by City
of Plainview): per contract;
      (3)   All material collected and dumped by haulers other than City
contracted hauler: Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per ton, or $0.0375 per pound.
      (4)   In all cases, fifteen dollars ($15.00) minimum if charge per weight
is less than that amount;
      (5)   In all cases, material bagged and totally inside trash bags: five
dollars ($5.00) per bag and need not be weighed;
      (6)   An extra ten dollars ($10.00) per item will be charged for all
electronics and furniture; and
      (7)   Extra charges will be added for any unauthorized material dumped,
at the discretion of the City, for proper removal and disposal.
   (C)   Rates for the C and D site shall be set as follows:
      (1)   Only authorized waste allowed;
      (2)   All material collected and dumped by haulers other than a City
contracted hauler: sixty-five dollars ($65.00) per ton, or $0.0325 per pound;
      (3)   In all cases, twenty dollars ($20.00) minimum if charge per weight
is less than that amount; and
      (4)   Extra charges will be added for any unauthorized material dumped at
the discretion of the City for proper removal and disposal. (Ord. No. 876, 6/
16/09) (Amended by Ord. No. 923, 9/15/15; 955, 3/10/20; 973, 12/21/21)
ARTICLE 3: NUISANCES
§ 4-301 NUISANCES; GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   1.   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   2.   Offends decency;
   3.   Is offensive to the senses;
   4.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street, or
highway in the Municipality;
   5.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   6.   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720, RS Neb.)
§ 4-302 NUISANCES; SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any
of the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish,
or fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the City;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetables or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the City nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner approved
by the health officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same is kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulation of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, appliances, scrap iron, tin, or other metal
not neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste
materials when any of said articles or materials create a condition in which
flies or rats may breed or multiply or which may be a fire danger or which are
so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;    
   (H)   Mattresses or other bedding, furniture originally designed, intended,
and sold for interior or household use (and thus generally not waterproof or
weather-resistant) when placed, used, or stored in an exterior location that is
not totally enclosed and protected from rain or snow; this shall include but
not be limited to all padded or "overstuffed" furniture, as well as wood
furniture having padded portions, and any other interior furniture;
   (I)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (J)   Any buildings or structures which have any or all of the defects
defined in §
9-501 hereafter are hereby declared to be unsafe or dangerous building or
structures and a public nuisance;
   (K)   All places used or maintained as junkyards, or dumping grounds, or for
the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons in any residential designated area
of the City;
   (L)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained in any lot or pierce of ground;
   (M)   Any machine, vehicle, or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost
their identity, character, utility, or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable
to perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away
or left as waste, wreckage, or junk;
   (N)   Any wood or tree limbs not cut or stacked in neat rows on an area not
exceeding ten (10) feet by sixteen (16) feet;
   (O)   Debris from burned or damaged buildings, whether created by consensual
burning or demolition or whether occurring due to fire or age;
   (P)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens, or
any other place, building, or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, including grain, is being processed, when said places in which said
animals are confined or said premises on which said vegetable or animal matter
is located are maintained and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors
are permitted to emanate therefore to the annoyance of inhabitants of the City
or are maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public
health;
   (Q)   Maintenance of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation of twelve (12)
inches or more in height. Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed
(Convolvulus arvensis), puncture vine, (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge
(Euphorbia esula), Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass
(Lepidium draba), Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum
halepense), nodding or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial
sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull
thistle (Cirsium lanceolatum) buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.), hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa) and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae);
   (R)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this Code.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 970, 12/21/21; 982, 9/13/22)
§ 4-303 NOTICE PROCEDURE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the City of Plainview, Nebraska shall keep such real
estate free of nuisances.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council, Board of Health, the health officer of the
City, the code enforcement officer of the City, or any other authorized person
by the City determines that any weeds or grasses in excess of twelve (12)
inches are growing on property within the City, or other nuisance, as defined
herein, is found on any property the following abatement procedure shall be
followed:
      (1)   The code enforcement officer shall document the weeds or nuisance
by photographing the same. Once the weeds or nuisance has been documented, the
City shall give notice to mow, abate, and remove such weeds, or nuisance to
each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant of the
premises, if any, by personal service or certified mail with return receipt
requested. If mailed, such notice shall be conspicuously marked as to its
importance. Personal service shall be made by an officer of the City's Police
Department. Such notice shall contain a copy of the photograph of the weeds or
nuisance, a copy of this ordinance, instructions on abatement of the weeds or
nuisance, time in which such abatement shall take place, and possible penalties
for failure to abate. However, if notice cannot be given via personal service
or certified mail with reasonable diligence, the City shall give notice to mow,
abate, and remove such weeds or nuisance to each owner or owner's duly
authorized agent and to the occupant of the premises, if any, (a) by leaving
and posting the notice on the premises so that the owner or owner's duly
authorized agent and/or the occupant of the premises may reasonably see it; (b)
by publication for one (1) week in some newspaper printed in Pierce County,
Nebraska where the subject premises are located; or (c) by any manner
reasonably calculated under the circumstances to provide the owner or owner's
duly authorized agent and/or the occupant of the premises with actual notice
and an opportunity to be heard.
      (2)   Within five (5) business days after receipt of such notice, the
owner, agent, or occupant, of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing
with the City to appeal the order to mow, abate, or remove the weeds or
nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk. A
hearing in the appeal shall be held within fourteen (14) days after the filing
of the appeal and shall be conducted by the Mayor as hearing officer. The Mayor
shall render a decision on the appeal within five (5) business days after the
conclusion of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted informally and the
formal rules of evidence shall not apply but either party may appear with an
attorney and may request that the hearing be recorded for appeal purposes. Any
decision rendered by the Mayor may be appealed to the District Court. If no
appeal is taken within ten (10) days of the Mayor's decision, the owner, agent,
or occupant shall promptly comply with the notice to abate. If abatement is not
completed with fourteen (14) days of the Mayor's decision and no appeal is
taken, the City's Police Department shall proceed pursuant to division (3) and
(4) below or to divisions (C)(1) and (2) as set forth below.
      (3)   Within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the lot of piece of ground does not request a hearing with the City
or fails to appeal the decision of the Mayor and fails to comply with the order
to mow or abate and remove the weeds or nuisance, the code enforcement officer
shall again photograph the weeds or nuisance to document that abatement has not
occurred.
      (4)   If abatement has not occurred with the time prescribed, the City
Police Department may deliver the original photographs, a copy of the delivered
notice to abate, the certificate of delivery or acknowledged return receipt of
the notice, and the photographs taken subsequent to the time to abate has
elapsed to the prosecuting attorney for the City and request that charges be
filed against the owner or occupant of the premises for maintenance of a
nuisance.
   (C)   In the alternative, the City may cause the weeds to be mowed or the
nuisance to be corrected or removed. The costs and expenses of any such work
shall be paid by the owner of the real estate. If unpaid for two (2) months
after such work is done, the City may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot of
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvement are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Ref. 17-121, 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 982, 9/
13/22)
§ 4-304 NUISANCES; JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the Municipality are directed to enforce
this Municipal Code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief
of Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
Chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the Municipality
within one (1) mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 4-305 NUISANCES; ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the Governing Body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
Municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial. (Ref. 19-710 RS Neb) (Ord. No. 453, 10/8/85)
§ 4-306  NUISANCES; DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the Municipality or within its one (1)-
mile zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such
notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request
a hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance,
the Municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any
portion of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground
so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed. (Ref. 17-555 RS Neb.)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the Municipality or within its one (1)-mile zoning
jurisdiction. The provisions in division (A)(2) shall apply to such nuisances.
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the municipal
police shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the
trees thereon. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 610, 2/14/95; 4-306, 12/8/15)
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISION
§ 4-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 4-402 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 983, 9/13/22)
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Article
   
1.   DEFINITIONS
   
2.   MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
3.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
   
4.   BICYCLES
   
5.   MINIBIKES, SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES AND
GOLF CARS
   
6.   PARKING
   
7.   SNOW EMERGENCY
   
8.   PENAL PROVISION
   
9.   AUTHORITY
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this Chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Chapter 60, Article 6 of
the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, as now existing or hereafter amended.
If not defined in the designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its
common meaning. (Ref. 60-606 through 60-676 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 583,
7/12/94)
§ 5-102 DEFINITIONS; MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The definition of MOTOR VEHICLE is hereby revised as shown below:
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon
rails, except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices. (Ref. 60-638 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 5-102, 12/8/15)
§ 5-102.1 DEFINITIONS; DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
   All references to the Department of Roads shall be updated to Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. No. 942, 2/13/18)
ARTICLE 2: MUNICIPAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 5-201 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
Municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the Municipality. The Governing
Body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes. (Ref. 60-681 RS Neb.)
§ 5-202 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel in any
street, or alley located in the Municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-203 TRAFFIC LANE; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-204 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-205 TURNING; "U" TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-206 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two (2) streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another. (Ref. 60-6,159 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-207 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (1)   When two (2) vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles
intersect and there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a
Municipal Policeman stationed at the intersection.
   (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is
within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   (3)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to
a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk, or at
any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles
upon the street.
   (4)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of -way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (5)   The driver of a vehicle entering a Municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
   (6)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Ref. 60-6,146 through 60-6,154 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 584, 7/12/94)
§ 5-208 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one (1) block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop,
except at the time they are on or crossing a  street intersection, in which
event, such vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop.
Every vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move
to a position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until
such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; Provided, said
vehicles are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of
proper visual or audible signals. (Ref. 39-640 RS Neb.)
§ 5-209 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one half (½)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway. (Ref. 39-620 RS Neb.)
§ 5-210 CROSSWALKS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as they may deem necessary. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-211 SIGNS, SIGNALS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the Municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of
the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition. (Ref 39-609
thru 39-611, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-212 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible. (Ref. 39-609 thru 39-611, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-213 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (1)   Section 60-682.01 RS Neb. provides fines for operating a motor vehicle
in violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled
if the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (2)   Section 60-6,134.01 RS Neb. makes it unlawful for a person operating a
motor vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in
which the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides
fines for violation of that prohibition.
   (3)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the Governing Body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Ref. 60-658.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 707, 8/11/98)
ARTICLE 3: PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 5-301 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
Governing Body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering. (Ref. 39-311 RS Neb.)
§ 5-302 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns,
nails, tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of, or
containing, glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person
responsible for such breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be
removed, from the street. (Ref. 39-311 RS Neb.)
§ 5-303 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ref. 60-6,129
RS Neb.)
§ 5-304 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice. (Ref. 60-6,127 RS Neb.)
§ 5-305 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
at a rate of speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per hour within the
residential district, and twenty (20) miles per hour within the business
district, unless a different rate of speed is specifically permitted by
ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent  under the conditions. Where a
different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Ref. 60-6,186, 60-6,190 RS Neb.)
§ 5-306 SPEED, NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of fifteen (15) miles per hour past such premises, and such driver shall stop
at all stop signs located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall be
unlawful for such driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such stop
signs are located at, or near, such school premise. (Ref. 60-6,190 RS Neb.)
§ 5-307 DRUNKEN DRIVING.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 591, 7/12/94)
§ 5-308 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute. (Ref. 60-6,213, 60-6,215, 60-4,182 RS Neb.)
§ 5-309 RECKLESS DRIVING; WILLFUL.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons, or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful, reckless driving, and shall be punished as provided by
statute. (Ref. 60-6,214 through 60-6,218 RS Neb.)
§ 5-310 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this Municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving. (Ref. 60-6,212 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 337, 11/12/79)
§ 5-311 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.  (Ref.
60-4,182 RS Neb.)
§ 5-312 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the Municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half (1½) lengths of the vehicle.
§ 5-313 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to their vehicles.
§ 5-314 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two (2) or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. (Ref. 60-6,139, 60-6,308
RS Neb.)
§ 5-315 FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street. (Ref. 60-6,140 RS Neb.)
§ 5-316 FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred (500) feet, or drive into, or
park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer
to a fire alarm. (Ref. 60-6,183 RS Neb.)
§ 5-317 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle. (Ref. 60-
6,179 RS Neb.)
§ 5-318 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway. (Ref. 60-6,178 RS Neb.)
§ 5-319 UNNECESSARY TIRE NOISE.
   Any person who drives, uses, operates, parks or stops any motor vehicle in
such a manner as to cause unnecessary tire noise shall be deemed guilty of
causing unnecessary tire noise.
§ 5-320 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this Municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake muffler or any
other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such that the noise
emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured. It shall be unlawful to use a ''muffler cut-out'' on
any motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this section
shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles. (Ref. 60-6,286, 60-2209 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-321 MOTOR VEHICLE; WRONGFUL TAKING.
   Whoever wrongfully takes any automobile, or motorcycle from a garage, or any
other place where the same may have been lawfully placed, without the consent
of the owner, or who shall use any motor vehicle in bailment beyond that use
which was originally intended or agreed upon, with intent to wrongfully use the
automobile or motorcycle so taken, shall be guilty of wrongful taking of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided by law. (Ref. 28-521 RS Neb.)
§ 5-322 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies. (Ref. 81-2005 RS Neb.)
§ 5-323 POLICE; ENFORCEMENTS.
   The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer. (Ref. 60-683 RS Neb.)
§ 5-324 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-325 POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Governing Body or the Municipal Police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as ''traffic officers,'' at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which
may have been placed at any such intersection. (Ref. 60-6,222, 60-680, 60-683
RS Neb.)
§ 5-326 VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys, or highways of the
Municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop, and to hold such vehicle, including two (2) separate
means of applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and
sufficient horn in good working order, or other efficient signal devices. From
sunset to sunrise, and any other time when there is not sufficient light to
render clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the street, alley, or
highway at a distance of five hundred feet (500'), every motor vehicle shall be
equipped with lighted headlights, and every motor vehicle and trailer shall be
equipped with one or more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or
trailer, exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the rear of such vehicle. No person shall operate any
vehicle which is equipped with an electric light or lights that confuse
travelers or pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within the Municipality.
Every motor vehicle having a width of eighty inches (80") or more shall display
clearance lights as required by State law. All vehicle brakes shall be
maintained in good working order; provided, motorcycles need only be equipped
with one (1) brake. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of emitting
sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than two
hundred feet (200'); provided, no vehicle except as herein provided, shall be
equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a vehicle, any siren, or horn
otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor shall any person use any horn or
warning device upon a vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud, or harsh sound;
and provided further that, every Police and Fire Department vehicle, ambulance,
or other authorized emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be
equipped with a bell, siren, or whistle of the type approved by the Governing
Body. (Ref. 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-6,244, 60-6,285 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 643, 2/13/96)
§ 5-327 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another vehicle
in any school crossing zone designated by the Governing Body in which the
roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction. (Ref. 60-6,134.01 RS
Neb.) (Ord. 708, 8/11/98)                 
§ 5-328 LOADS; SPILLING OR SHIFTING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall transport any sand, gravel, rock less than two inches
in diameter, or refuse in any vehicle on any hard-surfaced highway if such
material protrudes above the sides of that part of the vehicle in which it is
being transported unless such material is enclosed or completely covered with
canvas or similar covering.
   (C)   No person shall drive or move a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer
upon any highway unless the cargo or contents carried by the motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer are properly distributed and adequately secured to
prevent the falling of cargo or contents from the vehicle. The tailgate, doors,
tarpaulins, and any other equipment used in the operation of the motor vehicle,
trailer, or semitrailer or in the distributing or securing of the cargo or
contents carried by the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer shall be secured
to prevent cargo or contents falling from the vehicle. The means of securement
to the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer must be either tiedowns and
tiedown assemblies of adequate strength or sides, sideboards, or stakes and a
rear endgate, endboard, or stakes strong enough and high enough to assure that
cargo or contents will not fall from the vehicle. (Ref. 60-6,304 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 795, 4/8/03)
§ 5-329 ENGINE BRAKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
Municipality to make, or cause to be made, loud or disturbing noises with any
mechanical device used for the purposes of assisting braking on any vehicle,
also known as engine braking. The Governing Body shall cause notices to be
posted or erect signs indicating this prohibition. Any person who violates or
refuses to comply with this section shall be deemed guilty of an offense and
upon conviction shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed for every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply. (Ord. No. 842, 4/12/05)
ARTICLE 4: BICYCLES
§ 5-401 BICYCLE; OPERATION.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public highway
of this Municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but every
bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator
and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all stop
signs.
   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway from
one-half (½) hour after sunset and one-half (½) hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than five hundred feet (500') indicating the approach or presence
of the bicycle, firmly attached to such bicycle, and properly lighted, or
without a yellow, or red light reflector attached to, and visible five hundred
feet (500') from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall give a clear, white
light.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a bicycle.
   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand
side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles
and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the right
when meeting. (Ref. 60-6,315, 60-6,317, 60-6,318 RS Neb.)
§ 5-402 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis, or
toy vehicle shall attach himself or the bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
skis, or toy vehicle to any vehicle upon a roadway, and it shall be unlawful
for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis, or toy vehicle to cling or attach
himself or the bicycle to such vehicle driven and operated by him. (Ref. 60-
6,316 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 585, 7/12/94)
ARTICLE 5: MINIBIKES, SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES,
UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES AND GOLF CARS
§ 5-501 MINIBIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the Municipality. For purposes of this
Article, ''minibike'' shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than fourteen (14) inches or an engine rated
capacity of less than forty-five (45) cubic centimeters displacement or any
other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-
road use only. (Ref. 60-2101.01, 60-2107 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 381, 12/
8/81)
§ 5-502 MINIBIKES; EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this Article during any
public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of
any recognized charitable, social, educational or community service
organization. (Ref. 60-2102 RS Neb.)
§ 5-503 MINIBIKES; PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the
Municipality except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref.
60-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 5-504 SNOWMOBILES; EQUIPMENT.
   Every snowmobile operated within the Municipality shall be registered with
the State of Nebraska, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon
a public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp,
one tail lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of sixteen (16) square
inches mounted on each side forward of the handle bars, and with brakes as
prescribed by the Director of Motor Vehicles.
   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply to
snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which, by
their nature, have no application. (Ref. 60-2002, 60-2013 RS Neb.)
§ 5-505 SNOWMOBILES; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him, to be operated:
   1. Within the congested area of the Municipality unless weather conditions
are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe vehicular travel,
or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency.
   2.   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances.
   3.    In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property.
   4.   Without a lighted headlight and tail light when such would be required
by conditions.
   5.    In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock.
   6.    Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Ref. 60-2013, 60-2015 RS Neb.)
§ 5-506 SNOWMOBILES; PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the Municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body.
(Ref. 60-2016 RS Neb.)
§ 5-507 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; OPERATION, RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   For purposes of this section:
      (a)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE means any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         1.   Is fifty (50) inches or less in width;
         2.   Has a dry weight of nine hundred (900) pounds or less;
         3.   Travels on three (3) or more low-pressure tires;
         4.   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one (1)
passenger;
         5.   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
         6.   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
      (b)   STREET or HIGHWAY means the entire width between the boundary
limits of any street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   (2)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated on streets and highways within
the corporate limits of the City only if the operator and the vehicle comply
with the provisions of this section.
   (3)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated only between the hours of
sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of thirty
(30) miles per hour. When operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in
subsection (2) of this section, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle
shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag, which
extends not less than five (5) feet above ground attached to the rear of such
vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than thirty (30) square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (4)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in
subsection (2) of this section shall have:
      (a)   A valid Class O operator's license; and
      (b)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle while
operating the all-terrain vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating
the all-terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five (5) days of such a request.
   (5)   All-terrain vehicles may be operated without complying with
subsections (3) and (4) of this section on streets and highways in parades
which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska or any department, board,
commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (6)   An all-terrain vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes shall not
be permitted. Subsections (2) through (4) and (7) of this section authorize and
apply to operation of an all-terrain vehicle only on a street or highway other
than a controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes.
   (7)   Subject to subsection (6) of this section, the crossing of a street or
highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle without complying with
subsections (3) and (4) of this section only if:
      (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90)
degrees to the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made. (Ref. 60-6,356 RS Neb.)
   (8)   Specific local requirements:
      (a)   Any operation of an all-terrain vehicle within the City limits
shall, in addition to the requirements above, obey all municipal traffic
ordinances and regulations, including, but not limited to, posted speed limits
and stop signs; and
      (b)   Any operator of an age of twenty (20) years or younger shall wear a
D.O.T. certified motorcycle helmet at all times.
   (9)   A person who violates this section shall be punished as provided
generally in Chapter 12 of this code. (Ord. No. 864, 7/15/08)   
§ 5-508 UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES (UTVS); OPERATION, RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   For purposes of this section:
      (a)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES means vehicles weighing between nine hundred
(900) and two thousand (2,000) pounds with:
         1.   Widths between forty-eight (48) and seventy-four (74) inches;
         2.   Lengths no more than one hundred thirty-five (135) inches;
         3.   Four (4) or more low-pressure tires;
         4.   Steering wheels; and
         5.   Bench or bucket-type seating for at least two people to sit side-
by-side.
This definition does not include golf carts or low speed vehicles as defined by
Nebraska law.
   (b)   STREET or HIGHWAY means the entire width between the boundary limits
of any street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
   (2)   Utility-type vehicles may be operated on streets and highways within
the corporate limits of the City only if the operator and the vehicle comply
with the provisions of this section.
   (3)   Utility-type vehicles must be titled under state law, may be operated
only between the hours of sunrise and sunset, and shall not be operated at a
speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour. When operating a utility-type
vehicle as authorized in subsection (2) of this section, the headlight and
taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a
bicycle safety flag, which extends not less than five (5) feet above ground
attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than thirty (30) square inches and
shall be day-glow in color.
   (4)   Any person operating utility-type vehicles as authorized in subsection
(2) of this section shall:
      (a)   Hold a valid Class O operator's license; and
      (b)   Have liability insurance coverage for the utility-type vehicles
while operating the utility-type vehicle on a street or highway. The person
operating the utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance
coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five (5) days of
such a request.
   (5)   Utility-type vehicles may be operated without complying with
subsections (3) and (4) of this section on streets and highways in parades
which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska or any department, board,
commission, or political subdivision of the State.
   (6)   Utility-type vehicles shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes shall not
be permitted. Subsections (2) through (4) and (7) of this section authorize and
apply to operation of utility-type vehicles only on a street or highway other
than a controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes.
   (7)   Subject to subsection (6) of this section, the crossing of a street or
highway shall be permitted by utility-type vehicles without complying with
subsections (3) and (4) of this section only if:
      (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90)
degree to the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (c)    The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the utility-type vehicle are on
when the crossing is made. (Ref. 60-6,356 RS Neb.)
   (8)   Additional requirements:
      (a)   Any operation of utility-type vehicles within the City limits
shall, in addition to the requirements above, obey all municipal traffic
ordinances and regulations, including, but not limited to, posted speed limits
and stop signs; and
      (b)   Any owner of utility-type vehicles who knowingly allows an
unlicensed or otherwise unqualified rider to access or operate the owners
utility-type vehicle may be cited for a violation hereunder.
   (9)   A person who violates this section shall be punished as provided
generally in Chapter 12 of the municipal code. (Ord. No. 888, 12/14/10)
§ 5-509 GOLF CAR VEHICLES; OPERATION, RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definition.
      GOLF CAR VEHICLE.
         (a)   At least four (4) wheels;
         (b)   Maximum level ground speed of less than twenty miles (20) per
hour;
         (c) Maximum payload capacity of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
pounds;
         (d)   Maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred
(2,500) pounds;
         (e)   Maximum passenger capacity of not more than four (4) persons;
and
         (f)   Designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course for
sporting and recreational purposes.
   (B)   Golf car vehicles may be operated on streets within the corporate
limits of the City only if the operator and the vehicle comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Golf car vehicles may be operated only between the hours of sunrise
and sunset and on streets with a posted speed limit of thirty-five (35) miles
per hour or less, and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of twenty (20)
miles per hour.
   (D)   Any person operating golf car vehicles as authorized in division (B)
above shall:
      (1)   Hold a valid Class O operator's license; and
      (2)   Have Liability insurance coverage for the golf car vehicle. The
person operating the golf car vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance
coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five (5) days of
such a request.
      (3)   Liability insurance coverage shall be subject to limits, exclusive
of interest and costs, as follows: Twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000)
because of bodily injury to or death of one (1) person in any one (1) accident
and, subject to such limit for one (1) person, fifty thousand dollars ($50,000)
because of bodily injury to or death of two (2) or more persons in any one (1)
accident, and twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) because of injury to or
destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident.
   (E)   Golf car vehicles shall not be operated at any time on any state or
federal highway.
   (F)   Subject to this section, the crossing of a street or highway shall be
permitted by golf car vehicles only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90)
degrees to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with a street or road, as applicable.
   (G)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   ROAD means a public way for the purposes of vehicular travel,
including the entire area within the right-of-way;
      (2)   STREET means a public way for the purposes of vehicular travel in a
city or village and includes the entire area within the right-of-way.
   (H)   Additional requirements:
      (1)   Any operation of golf car vehicles within the City limits shall, in
addition to the requirements above, obey all municipal traffic ordinances and
regulations, including, but not limited to, posted speed limits and stop signs;
and
      (2)   Any owner of golf car vehicles who knowingly allows an unlicensed
or otherwise unqualified rider to access or operate the owners' golf car
vehicle may be cited for a violation hereunder.
      (3)   When operating a golf car vehicle as authorized in division (B)
above, the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag, which extends
not less than five (5) feet above ground, attached to the rear of such vehicle.
The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less
than thirty (30) square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (I)   A person who violates this section shall be punished as provided
generally in Chapter 12 of the Municipal Code. (Ord. No. 925, 9/15/15)
ARTICLE 6: PARKING
§ 5-601 VEHICLES; UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle,
when traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the
gears of the vehicle in neutral. (Ref. 39-674 RS Neb.)
§ 5-602 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within twelve (12") inches of the curb
or edge of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four (4') feet between the
vehicle so parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the Governing
Body designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the
front right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are
designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such
stalls. (Ref. 39-673, 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-603 PARKING; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb. (Ref. 39-673,
60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-604 PARKING; AREAS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-605 PARKING; OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-606 PARKING; ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not
exceed the maximum limit of one half (1/2) hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-607 PARKING; FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within fifteen (15') feet in either direction of
any fire hydrant nor within twenty (20') feet of the driveway entrance to any
fire station. The curb space within such area of fifteen (15') feet in either
direction of such fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate such
prohibition.  (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 5-608 PARKING; STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within twenty-five (25') feet of the intersection of curb
lines, or if none, then within fifteen (15') feet of the intersection of
property lines, nor where said curb lines are painted red to indicate such
prohibition.  (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 5-609 PARKING; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive. (Ref. 60-680
RS Neb.)
§ 5-610 PARKING; CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
said street has been designated to be a ''one-way'' street by the Governing
Body. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away. (Ref. 39-673 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-611 PARKING; CURBS, PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator to cause the curb space to be
painted and keep the same painted as provided in this Article. No person, firm,
or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set aside,
or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this Article. The marking or designating of portions of streets
or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done
only by the Municipality through its proper officers, at the direction of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-612 PARKING; TIME LIMIT.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this Article.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-613 PARKING; MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
    The parking of a motor vehicle, trailer, or any other licensed or
unlicensed vehicle, off road vehicle, or towable or self-propelled equipment on
a public street for over forty-eight (48) consecutive hours is unlawful, except
where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(Amended by Ord. No. 971, 11/9/21)
§ 5-614 PARKING; MAINTENANCE.
   The Municipal Police may order any street or alley, or portion thereof,
vacated for weather emergencies or street maintenance. Notice shall be given by
personally notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such street
or alley, or by posting appropriate signs along such streets or alleys. Such
signs shall be posted not less than four (4) hours prior to the time that the
vacation order is to be effective. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of
this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in this Chapter, and
such vehicle may be removed and parked, under the supervision of the Municipal
Police, to a suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or
operator of such vehicle. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
§ 5-615 PARKING; PRIVATE LOTS.
   Any person parking a motor vehicle in a properly posted, restricted parking
lot without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized to give permission
shall be guilty of an infraction and the vehicle shall be subject to being
towed away at the request of such lot owner or tenant. Any person found guilty
under this section shall be subject to the penalties provided for infractions.
If the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in violation of this section
cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such infraction. When any
law  enforcement officer observes or is advised that a motor vehicle may be in
violation of this section, he or she shall make a determination as to whether a
violation has in fact occurred and if so shall personally serve or attach to
such motor vehicle a citation directed to the owner or operator of such
vehicle, which shall set forth the nature of the violation. Any person who
refuses to sign the citation or otherwise comply with the command of the
citation shall be punished as provided by section 29-426 RS Neb.
   Signs designating a restricted parking lot shall be readily visible and
shall state the purpose or purposes for parking on the restricted parking lot,
state the hours for restricted parking, and state who to contact for
information regarding a towed vehicle. (Ref. 60-2401, 60-2402 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 382, 12/8/81)
§ 5-616 PARKING; REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any Police Officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a street or
alley in violation of any of the provisions of this Article, such individual
may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off the roadway of
such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of such
vehicle may be charged with the reasonable cost for such removal and storage,
payable before such vehicle is released. Any such towing or storage fee shall
become a security interest in the vehicle prior to all other claims. This fee
shall be in addition to any other fees or penalties owed the Municipality for
such vehicle. (Ref. 39-671, 60-680 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 434, 9/11/84)
§ 5-617 PARKING; BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
    In the event that a traffic citation is issued for any parking violation,
in lieu of the filing of charges in the County Court, the City Police shall
designate on the citation the fine and cutoff date for settlement, and turn the
citation over to the office of the City Clerk. If the fine is paid, according
to the requirements set out in the citation, no further action shall be taken.
If the fine is not paid within the time set out in the citation, then the
citation shall be forwarded to the City Attorney for filing in the Pierce
County Court. For purposes of this section, the fines shall be as follows:
   $25.00 for the offense
   For purposes of this section, the cutoff date for the payment of said fine,
and the avoidance of formal proceedings, shall be seven (7) days from the date
the citation was issued. If the driver of the vehicle cannot be determined, the
citation shall be issued to the registered owner of the vehicle, who shall be
held responsible for the parking violation. (Ref. 18-1729 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
450, 10/8/85) (Amended by Ord. No. 977, 2/8/22)
§ 5-618 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DESIGNATION OF ONSTREET
PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.  
   (1)   The Governing Body may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
      (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to section 60-3,113 RS Neb.,
      (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state,
      (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the Municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in section 18-1739 RS Neb., and
      (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the Municipality, which
display the permit specified in section 18-1739 RS Neb. All such permits shall
be displayed by hanging the permit from the motor vehicle's rearview mirror so
as to be clearly visible through the front windshield. The permit shall be
displayed on the dashboard only when there is no rearview mirror.
   (2)   If the Governing Body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in section 18-1737
RS Neb. In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be
indicated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street
adjacent to the space or access aisle. (Ref. 18-1736 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 515,
12/12/89) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 557, 2/9/93; 558, 2/9/93; 588, 7/12/94; 644, 2/
13/96)
§ 5-619 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; HANDICAPPED PARKING
INFRACTION; DEFINED.
   For purposes of sections
5-618 to
5-621, the following terms shall be defined to mean as follows:
   (1)   Access aisle means a space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or
passenger loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the
federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the Act, as the Act and
rules and regulations existed on May 31, 2001.
   (2)   Handicapped or disabled person shall mean any individual with a severe
visual or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an
inability to travel unassisted more than two hundred feet (200') without the
use of a wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other
assistant device, any individual whose mobility is limited as a result of
respiratory problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent
that his or her functional limitations are classified in severity as being
Class III or Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart
Association, and any individual who has lost all or substantially all the use
of one or more limbs;
   (3)   Temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall mean any handicapped
or disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such a
manner for no longer than one (1) year; and
   (4)   Handicapped parking infraction shall mean the violation of any section
of this Article regulating (a) the use of parking spaces designated for use by
handicapped or disabled persons or (b) the obstruction of any wheelchair ramps
constructed or created in accordance and in conformity with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
(Ref. 18-1738, 18-1741.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 557, 2/9/93) (Amended by Ord. No.
645, 2/13/96)
§ 5-620 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (1)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application from a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her
parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for
by this Article when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor
vehicle while it is parked in such spaces or access aisles. For purposes of
this section, the handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to the provisions of section 18-1738.02
RS Neb.
   (3)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse practicing under and in accordance with his or her certification act,
certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No person applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security
number. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the
certifying physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse shall indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary
handicap or disability will continue for a period of six (6) months, whichever
is less.
   (4) A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold either
a permit under this section or a permit under section
5-620.01, but not both.
   (5)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section. (Ref. 18-1738, 18-1738.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 550, 2/
9/93) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 589, 7/12/94; 646, 2/13/96; 682, 8/12/97)
§ 5-620.01 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT
ISSUANCE.  
   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
provided for by this Article if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle
for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of a handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person and such
person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
designated spaces.
   (2) The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to section 18-1738.02 RS Neb.
   (3)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the
Municipal Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (4)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under section
5-620, but not both.
   (5)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section. (Ref. 18-1738.01, 18-1738.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 647,
2/13/96) (Amended by Ord. No. 683, 8/12/97)
§ 5-620.02 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMIT CONTENTS;
PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (1)   The permit issued for handicapped or disabled parking shall be
constructed of a durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for
the term of the permit's issuance and printed so as to  minimize the
possibility of alteration following issuance. The permit shall be of a design,
size, configuration, color, and construction and contain such information as
specified in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the United
States Department of Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped
Parking, 23 C.F.R. part 1235.
   (2)   In addition to the requirements of subsection (1) of this section, the
permit shall show such identifying information with regard to the handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom it is
issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this Article.
   (3)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to section 5-620.04. At the expiration
of such suspension, a permit may be renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
   (4)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the
same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form
need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the
most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the
Municipal Clerk. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the
period for which the original permit was issued. (Ref. 18-1739 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 648, 2/13/96) (Amended by Ord. No. 684, 8/12/97)
§ 5-620.03 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS; PERIOD VALID;
RENEWAL.
   (1)   Permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this Article issued prior to August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a
period ending on September 30 of the third year after the date of issuance and
shall expire on that date. Permanently issued permits issued on or after August
1, 2005, shall be valid for a period ending on the last day of the month of the
applicant's birthday in the third year after issuance and shall expire on that
day.
   (2)   All permits authorized under this Article for temporarily handicapped
or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more than six (6)
months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a period not
to exceed six (6) months. For the renewal period, there shall be submitted an
additional application with proof of a handicap or disability. (Ref. 18-1740 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 649, 2/13/96) (Amended by Ord. No. 685, 8/12/97)
§ 5-620.04 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE;
VIOLATION; SUSPENSION.  
   Permits issued under this Article shall not be transferable, and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purposes for which it is issued. No person shall alter or re-
produce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this Article. Any violation
of this section shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of
six (6) months. At the expiration of such period, a suspended permit may be
renewed upon payment of the permit fee. (Ref. 18-1741 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 650,
2/13/96)
§ 5-621 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED
VEHICLE; PENALTY.  
   (1)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an offstreet parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff's Department, and the
Municipality providing onstreet parking or owning, operating, or providing an
offstreet parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space,
including access aisles, designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, of any vehicle not
displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license plates specified in
this Article if there is posted aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from such stall or space, including access aisles, a sign which clearly
and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (2)   A person who parks in any onstreet parking space or access aisle which
has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space or access aisles in any offstreet parking facility, without properly
displaying the proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom
or for whom the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the
vehicle while it is parked in the designated space shall be guilty of a
handicapped parking infraction as defined in section
5-619, and shall be subject to the procedures as set forth in section 5-621 and
the penalty provided for in this Chapter. The display on a motor vehicle of a
distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or disabled
person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state shall
constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped parking
infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in this
Chapter.
   (3)   In the case of a privately owned offstreet parking facility, the owner
or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to inform
the Municipality of a violation of this section prior to the Municipality
issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation. (Ref. 18-1737
RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 590, 7/12/94) (Amended by Ord. No. 651, 2/13/96)
§ 5-622 REGISTRATION; TRAILERS.
   No trailer, semi-trailer, or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked on
any street, alley, or public highway within the Municipality without having
first registered the same in accordance with Chapter 60, Article 3, RS Neb.,
and section 60-321 RS Neb., except as provided in this section. A person may
pull such trailer, semitrailer, or cabin trailer without registration for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days from the date of purchase. Upon
registration, such trailer, semitrailer, or cabin trailer shall have the
required number plate displayed upon said trailer as provided for by section
60-311 RS Neb. If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for
a violation of this section and the owner properly registers and licenses the
vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or
operator provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within
ten (10) days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the
offense cited shall occur. (Ref. 60-302, 60-320, 60-321 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 587,
7/12/94) (Amended by Ord. No. 642, 2/13/96)
§ 5-623 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (1)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street,
alley, or public highway within the Municipality without having first
registered the same in accordance with Chapter 60, Article 3, RS Neb., and
section 60-321 RS Neb., except as provided in this subsection. A person may
operate a motor vehicle without registration for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days from the date of purchase. Upon registration, such vehicle shall have
the required number plates displayed upon said vehicle in the manner and places
provided for by section 60-323 RS Neb. If a citation is issued to an owner or
operator of a vehicle for a violation of this subsection and the owner properly
registers and licenses the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and
fees due and the owner or operator provides proof of such registration to the
prosecuting attorney within ten (10) days after the issuance of the citation,
no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
   (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator's license in
accordance with Chapter 60, Article 4, RS Neb. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or public highway
during the period that his or her operator's license has been revoked or
canceled. (Ref. 60-302, 60-320, 60-320.01, 60-321, 60-323, 60-4,186 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 586, 7/12/94) (Amended by Ord. No. 641, 2/13/96)
ARTICLE 7: SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 5-701 SNOW EMERGENCY; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this Article.
   ROADWAY means that portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SECONDARY STREETS are any streets which are not marked "Snow Emergency
Routes."
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES are those streets marked as such in accordance with
the provisions of this Article.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY means the entire width between the boundary lines of every
way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. No. 344, 12/12/79)
§ 5-702 SNOW EMERGENCY; PARKING.
   A parking prohibition shall automatically go into effect when declared by
the Mayor, or City Administrator, or Police Chief on any part of any Snow
Emergency Route on which there has been an accumulation of two (2) inches or
more of snow or freezing rain or ice conditions that cause a hazard to traffic.
This prohibition shall continue on a street until said street is cleared of
snow, or the hazardous conditions have been remedied.
   While the emergency route prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or
allow to remain parked, any vehicle on any snow emergency route. Parking shall
be limited on secondary streets, as noted below:
   1.   Vehicles may be parked on the North and East side of the street on days
with even numbers.
   2.   Vehicles may be parked on the South and West side of the street on days
with odd numbers.
   However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any
time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law. (Ord. No.
344, 12/12/79) (Amended by Ord. No. 810, 2/10/04)
§ 5-703 SNOW EMERGENCY; PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this Article which becomes effective by the occurrence of
certain weather conditions shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedence
over other conflicting provisions of law normally in effect, except that it
shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents,
emergency travel or authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic
directions by a Police Officer. (Ord. No. 344, 12/12/79)
§ 5-704 SNOW EMERGENCY; SIGNS.
   On each street designated by this Article as a Snow Emergency Route, the
City shall post special signs at intervals not exceeding one (1) sign per block
with the wording: "Snow Emergency Route. No Parking During Emergency. Tow Away
Zone." These signs shall be distinctive and uniform in appearance and shall be
plainly readable to persons traveling on the street or highway. (Ord. No. 344,
12/12/79)
§ 5-705 SNOW EMERGENCY; REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING, AND RETURN OF VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or have
removed a vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place of safety
(including another place on the street), or to a garage designated or
maintained by the Police Department, or otherwise maintained by this City,
when:
   1.   The vehicle is parked on a part of a Snow Emergency Route on which a
parking prohibition is in effect.
   2.    The vehicle is stalled on a part of a Snow Emergency Route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet, or ice or on which there is a park in
prohibition in effect and the person who was operating such vehicle does not
appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
   3.    The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provision of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations.
   Whenever an Officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street as
authorized in this section and the Officer knows or is able to ascertain from
the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in
writing
to such owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the
place to which such vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is
stored in a public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the
proprietor of such garage.
   Whenever an Officer removed or has removed a vehicle from a street under
this section and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the
owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the
owner within a period of three (3) days, then and in that event the Officer
shall immediately send or cause to be sent a written report of such removal by
mail to the State Department whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and
shall file a copy of such notice with the proprietor of any public garage in
which the vehicle may be stored. Such notice shall include a complete
description of the vehicle, the date, time and place from which removed, the
reasons for such removal, and the name of the garage or place where the vehicle
is stored.
   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with this section
except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in charge of such vehicle
shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it has been placed or
impounded, he shall present to a member of the Police Department evidence of
his identity and right to possession of the vehicle, shall sign a receipt for
its return, shall pay the cost of removal, and shall pay any cost of storage
accrued, not to exceed twenty-five ($25.00) dollars for the first (1st) day or
portion thereof, and five ($5.00) dollars for each additional day or portion
thereof, and thereafter. Until paid, these charges constitute a lien on the
vehicle which may be enforced in the same manner as a garage keeper's lien.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to keep a record of each
vehicle removed in accordance with this section. The record shall include a
description of the vehicle, its license number, the date and time of its
removal, where it was removed from, its location, the name and address of its
owner and last operator, if know, its final disposition, and the parking
violation involved.
   This section shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law granting
members of the Police Department authority to remove vehicles. (Ord. No. 344,
12/12/79)
§ 5-706 SNOW EMERGENCY; CITATION.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or left in
violation of any provision of this Article, and IS NOT REMOVED and impounded as
provided for in this Article, the Officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number or any other information displayed on the vehicle which may
identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a traffic
citation. (Ord. No. 344, 12/12/79)
§ 5-707 SNOW EMERGENCY; EVIDENCE.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provision of this Article, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation
of a provision of this Article, together with proof that the defendant named in
the complaint was at the time the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the person who parked or
left the vehicle in violation of this Article. (Ord. No. 344, 12/12/79)
§ 5-708 SNOW EMERGENCY; ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   The following streets or portions of streets within the City are hereby
designated as Snow Emergency Routes:
ROUTES SHALL BE DESIGNATED FROM TIME TO TIME BY RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL, AND
SHALL BE ENFORCED AS SUCH IMMEDIATELY UPON THE POSTING OF SIGNS.
(Ord. No. 344, 12/12/79)
§ 5-709 SNOW EMERGENCY; SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Article is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. No. 344, 12/12/79)
ARTICLE 8: PENAL PROVISION
§ 5-801 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
ARTICLE 9: AUTHORITY
§ 5-901 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, electric bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal
assistive mobility devices, and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any
person who operates any of such vehicles without the permission of the Council
or its designated representative or in a place, time, or manner which has been
prohibited by the Council shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The Council may further authorize the supervising official of any area
under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation of any
motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of any or
all types, electric bicycles, other powered vehicle, electric personal
assistive mobility device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any
portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or,
in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such
vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger
the peace and safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural
features or manmade features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ref. 60-678 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 995, 4/9/24)
CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
Article
   
1.   DOGS
   
2.   ANIMALS GENERALLY
   
3.   MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
   
4.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: DOGS
§ 6-101 DOGS; LICENSE AND TAG REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six (6) months within the
Municipality shall, within thirty (30) days after acquisition of the dog,
acquire a license for the dog annually by or before the May 1 of each year.
Licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the
amount established by the Governing Body, plus the one dollar and twenty-five
cent ($1.25) fee required under section 54-603(3) RS Neb. It shall be unlawful
for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed female
dog as a male or spayed female dog if the Governing Body has established
different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten (10) days thereafter. The license shall not
be transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax. (Ref. 54-603 RS Neb.)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the Governing Body for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the General Fund of the City, except as otherwise provided by section 54-603 RS
Neb. (Amended by. Ord. Nos. 871, 1/13/09; 887, 1/12/10; 6-101, 12/8/15)
§ 6-102 DOGS; LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Municipal Clerk or Municipal Pound
Authorities shall issue to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a
metallic tag for each dog so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly
attached to the collar or harness of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the
owner to keep or harbor the said dog until the thirty-first (31st) day of
December following such licensing. In the event that a license tag is lost and
upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was issued in
accordance with the provisions herein, the Municipal Clerk shall issue a
duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has
been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the Governing
Body for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All license fees and collections
shall be immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the
Municipal Clerk or Municipal Pound Authorities to issue tags of a suitable
design that are different in appearance each year.  (Ref. 17-526, 54-603 RS
Neb.) (Am. Ord. No. 872, 1/13/09)
§ 6-103 DOGS; WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to
permit or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other Municipal
identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk or Municipal Pound
Authorities for dogs, nor shall the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and
knowingly license an unspayed female dog with a license prescribed for a male
or spayed female dog. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603 RS Neb.)
   (2)   In the event that a citation is issued under this section, in lieu of
filing charges in the County Court, the City Police shall designate on the
citation the fine and cutoff date for settlement, and turn the citation over to
the office of the City Clerk. If the citation is the individuals only offense
under this section in the last six (6) months (counted calendar months back
from the date of offense indicated on the citation) and if the fine is paid
within five (5) days of the citation date and according to the requirements set
out in the citation, no further action shall be taken on that citation. If the
fine is not paid within five (5) days, then the citation shall be forwarded to
the City Attorney for filing in the Pierce County Court. For purposes of this
section, the fine shall be as follows: Twenty dollars ($20.00) for the offense.
(Ord. No. 756, 6/12/01)
§ 6-104 DOGS; OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten (10) days or
more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog and shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Ref. 54-606, 71-4401 RS Neb.)
§ 6-105 DOGS; PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Governing Body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than thirty (30)
days or more than ninety (90) days from the date of such proclamation, or until
such danger is passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient
means in a house, garage, or yard on the premise wherein the said owner may
reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§ 6-106 DOGS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Municipal Police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved. (Ref. 54-605 RS Neb.)
§ 6-107 DOGS; VICIOUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog of a
dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite, without the said dog being securely  held by a chain not
over six (6) feet long. If any vicious or dangerous dog is otherwise held,
confined, or allowed to run at large, the Municipal Police shall have the
authority to put the dog to death. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§ 6-108 DOGS; INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
Municipal Policeman who is performing any duty enjoined upon him by the
provisions of this Article. (Ref. 28-906 RS Neb.)
§ 6-109 DOGS; KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog, or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, or
in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property
of another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to Municipal
Policemen acting within their power and duty. (Ref. 28-1002 RS Neb.)
§ 6-110 DOGS; BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy
or disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the Municipality. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
   (2)   In the event that a citation is issued under this section, in lieu of
filing charges in the County Court, the City Police shall designate on the
citation the fine and cutoff date for settlement, and turn the citation over to
the office of the City Clerk. If the citation is the individuals only offense
under this section in the last six (6) months (counted calendar months back
from the date of offense indicated on the citation) and if the fine is paid
within five (5) days of the citation date and according to the requirements set
out in the citation, no further action shall be taken on that citation. If the
fine is not paid within five (5) days, then the citation shall be forwarded to
the City Attorney for filing in the Pierce County Court. For purposes of this
section, the fine shall be as follows: Twenty dollars ($20.00) for the offense.
(Ord. No. 756, 6/12/01)
§ 6-111 DOGS; FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight. (Ref.
17-526 RS Neb.)
§ 6-112 DOGS; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by him, or under his charge or control, to injure or destroy any real or
personal property of any description belonging to another person. The owner or
possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction,
may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in an amount equal to the
value of the damage so sustained. (Ref. 54-601, 54-602 RS Neb.)
§ 6-113 DOGS; REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
§ 6-114 DOGS; IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to capture, secure, and remove
in a humane manner to the Municipal Animal Shelter any dog violating any of the
provisions of this Article. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a humane
manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water
each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than five (5) days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including
any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the
Municipal Clerk within twenty-four (24) hours after impoundment as public
notification of such impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during
the period of impoundment by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily
board fee as set by resolution of the Governing Body and on file in the office
of the Municipal Clerk. The owner shall then be required to comply with the
licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within seventy-two (72) hours
after release. If the dog is not claimed at the end of required waiting period
after public notice has been given the Municipal Police may dispose of the dog
in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same;
provided, that if, in the judgment of the Municipal Police, a suitable home can
be found for any such dog within the Municipality, the said dog shall be turned
over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees
and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this Article.
The Municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog impounded in
the Animal Shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. All dogs  shall be destroyed and buried in the summary and
humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a suitable home can
be found for such dog. (Ref. 17-548, 71-4408 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. Nos. 298,
10/10/77; 364, 2/9/81; 387, 12/8/81)
§ 6-115 DOGS; RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this Article which has bitten any person
and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under the
supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten (10) days.
If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies
at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner, or, in the
case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it
shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of
at least ten (10) days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from
confinement.
§ 6-116 DOGS; RUNNING AT LARGE; DEFINITIONS; PENALTIES.
   (1)   No dog shall be permitted to run at large in the City. For purposes of
this section, a dog shall be deemed to be running at large unless:
      (a)   It is confined within a residence, a building, fenced area or
kennel; or
      (b)   It is tied in a fixed location from which it cannot reach a public
sidewalk or street; or
      (c)   It is on a leash under the control of its owner or handler; or
      (d)   It is on property owned or leased by its owner and under the
constant supervision and control of the owner.
   (2)   Any dog found to be running at large may be impounded as otherwise
provided in this Article, or in the alternative, a citation may be issued to
the owner of the dog by the Municipal Police.
   (3)   In the event that a citation is issued under this section, in lieu of
filing charges in the County Court, the City Police shall designate on the
citation the fine and cutoff date for settlement, and turn the citation over to
the office of the City Clerk. If the citation is the individual's only offense
under this section in the last six (6) months (counted calendar months back
from the date of offense indicated on the citation) and if the fine is paid
within five (5) days of the citation date and according to the requirements set
out in the citation, no further action shall be taken on that citation. If the
fine is not paid within five (5) days, then the citation shall be forwarded to
the City Attorney for filing in the Pierce County Court. For purposes of this
section, the fine shall be as follows: Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the offense.
(Ord. No. 367, 3/12/81) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 500, 2/14/89; 756, 6/12/01; 882,
1/12/10)
Cross Reference:
   Rules of confinement, see §
6-117(H)
§ 6-117 DOGS; DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It is hereby determined unlawful for any person, firm or
other legal entity to own, harbor, or maintain a dangerous dog, contrary to the
terms of this section, within the corporate limits of the City or its zoning
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Definition of dangerous dog. For purposes of this Code, a dog shall be
deemed a DANGEROUS DOG if it has:
      (1)   Killed a human being; or
      (2)   Inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical treatment;
or
      (3)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
      (4)   Been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by a
City police officer, the owner has received notice from the Police Department
of such determination, and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that
does not require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
   (C)   Exceptions. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG:
      (1)   Under division (B)(2) above if said human being was tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog; or
      (2)   Under division (B)(4) above if the injury, damage, or threat was
sustained by an individual who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass
as defined in sections 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521 RS Neb., was committing any
other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was tormenting, abusing,
or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime; or
      (3)   Under division (B) above if the dog is a police animal as defined
in section 28-1008 RS Neb.
   (D)   Additional definitions. For purposes of this section:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMAL means a cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock
includes buffalo, deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo,
wildlife park, refuge, wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on
exhibit.
      (2)   MEDICAL TREATMENT means treatment administered by a physician or
other licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      (3)   OWNER means any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      (4)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG means (a) any dog that when unprovoked
(i) inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, (ii) injures a domestic animal, or (iii) chases or approaches a
person upon streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or
apparent attitude of attack or (b) any specific dog with a known propensity,
tendency, or disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to
threaten the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   (E)   Requirements for dangerous dogs.
      (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within thirty (30) days after such declaration. The cost of both
procedures is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written
proof of both procedures and the microchip identification number shall be
provided to the Police Department by the owner of the dangerous dog after the
procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash
and under the immediate control of a person sixteen (16) years of age or older.
      (3)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (4)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at a depth of at least
one (1) foot. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the
elements. The pen or structure shall be at least ten (10) feet from any
property line of the owner. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning
signs on the property where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all
areas of public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the
property. Each warning sign shall be no less than ten inches by twelve inches
(10x12 in.) and shall contain the words warning and dangerous animal in high-
contrast lettering at least three (3) inches high on a black background.
   (F)   Confiscation and destruction. Any dangerous dog may be immediately
confiscated by the Police Department if the owner is in violation of this
section. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by
the Police Department for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by a City
police officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the
Police Department is pursuant to law and if the owner violated any provision of
this section. Any dangerous dog engaging in an unprovoked attack upon any human
being or other domestic animal resulting in injury to a human being that
requires medical attention or serious injury to another domestic animal
requiring veterinary attention will be apprehended by the Police Department and
destroyed.
   (G)   All dogs; rules on confinement. Any dog (unless subject to stricter
requirements as dangerous dog as stated above):
      (1)   Shall not be allowed to run loose within the City limits, unless
said dog is on property owned by the owner of the dog, and under the immediate
and constant supervision of the dog owner or another adult member of the dog
owner's family. If off the owner's property, such dog shall be constantly on a
leash adequate to secure the dog in question, and under the owner's constant
control;
      (2)   Shall not be left out of doors and unsupervised unless in a kennel,
or on the owner's property and in a fenced area with solid or wire fence at
least four (4) feet high. Upon any one incident of the dog escaping the fenced
area and running at large, owner may be cited for "dog at large"; only a kennel
will be allowed (fenced area shall not longer be deemed adequate) and kennel
shall meet the requirements of those required of dogs defined as dangerous
dogs. (Temporary dog escape of less than five (5) minutes, with owner
immediately retrieving the dog, will not trigger this kennel requirement); and
      (3)   Shall not be confined outside on a leash or chain and unsupervised,
but shall only be in a fenced area or kennel when unsupervised. No fenced area
or kennel shall have a side or boundary any closer than six (6) feet to a
public sidewalk or other public area.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person, firm or other legal entity violating any
provision of this section shall be fined in a sum not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00), and each day's violation shall be a separate offense.
(Ref. 54-617 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 510, 11/14/89) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 510, 8/8/
17; 510, 5/12/20; 994, 6/11/24)
§ 6-118 DANGEROUS DOGS; RESTRAINED.
   See §
6-117 for provisions on dangerous dogs.
§ 6-119 DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINED.
   See §
6-117 for provisions on dangerous dogs.
§ 6-120 DANGEROUS DOGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   See §
6-117 for provisions on dangerous dogs.
§ 6-121 DANGEROUS DOGS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   See §
6-117 for provisions on dangerous dogs.
ARTICLE 2: ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 6-201 ANIMALS; CONTROLLED WITHIN MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep and maintain within the
corporate limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock,
and it shall also be unlawful to keep and maintain within the corporate limits
any chickens, geese, turkeys, or other fowl, unless otherwise provided in this
Article. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 884, 9/14/10; 966, 9/14/2021)
§ 6-202 ANIMALS; CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork, or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the Municipality.  (Ref. 28-1001, 28-1002 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-203 ANIMALS; KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the said animal. (Ref. 28-1001, 28-1002 RS Neb.)
§ 6-204 ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
§ 6-205 CATS; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the Municipality to own, keep, or
harbor a cat over the age of three (3) months without having licensed said cat.
Application for the said license shall be made to the Municipal Clerk and shall
include the name and address of the owner of the cat; such description as may
be required for the purpose of identification; and the number of the
registration issued. Upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the
Governing Body AND collection of the one dollar ($1.00) per license fee
required by the State of Nebraska to be remitted to the Commercial Dog and Cat
Operator Inspection Fund, the Municipal Clerk shall furnish to the registrant a
receipt showing proof of such payment and a metallic tag bearing the
registration number and the registration year. The license renewal shall be due
on the first (1st) day of May of any year, and the renewal fee shall be
delinquent on the tenth  (10th) day of May. Said license shall not be
transferable and no refund will be allowed in the case of the death, sale, or
other disposition of the licensed cat. No license shall be issued without
presentation of a certificate for a rabies shot effective for the ensuing year.
In the event that the license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that
the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with provisions herein, the
Municipal Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year
for which the tax has been paid and may charge and collect a fee set by
resolution of the Governing Body for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All
license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design
that are different in appearance each year. (Ref. 17-547 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
380, 12/8/81) (Amended by Ord. No. 886, 10/12/10)
§ 6-206 ANY ANIMAL; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The state Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus, or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a non- domestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody of
a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than thirty (30)
days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having charge or
control of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person's
house, yard, or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than thirty (30) days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State of
Nebraska or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Ref. 71-4401 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20)
§ 6-206.1 DOMESTIC OR HYBRID ANIMAL OR LIVESTOCK; POST-EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT.
   Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department.
(Ref. 71-4407 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20)
§ 6-206.2 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Ref. 71-4406 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20)
§ 6-207 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the City or any
other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the City or
any other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations, or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special
investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to 81-
201 RS Neb. while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      OWNER or CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties. (Ref. 28-1008 RS
Neb.)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in sections 29-422 to 29-429 RS Neb.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence. (Ref. 28-1012 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties. (Ref. 28-1009 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 6-207, 2/12/13) (Amended by Ord. No. 6-206, 12/8/15; 985, 3/14/23)
§ 6-208 ANIMALS; CHICKENS WITH PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be lawful for a person to keep and maintain chickens within
the corporate limits, provided said person completely complies with this
section and has received a special use permit issued pursuant to this section,
and including special use permit requirements.
   (B)   Chickens shall not be kept:
      (1)   On a lot or parcel of ground without a dwelling owned and occupied
by the owner of the chickens as his or her primary residence;
      (2)   In numbers less than two (2) or greater than eight (8) per lot or
parcel of ground;
      (3)   Within coops or runs closer than fifty (50) feet to a neighboring
residence, unless the owner of the neighboring residence has provided written
consent to the same; or
      (4)   Within coops or runs closer than twenty-five (25) feet to a
neighboring property line.
   (C)   Chickens are not allowed in a residence, porch or attached garage, or
to run free. Chickens shall be confined in a coop in the backyard of a
permittee's residence with a minimum of one (1) square foot per bird (one
hundred forty-four (144) square inches). The coop must be properly ventilated
and must have a hard surface floor. An outside, enclosed run is permitted. The
run should be no larger than one hundred (100) square feet, and it must be
attached to the coop. The run shall provide a minimum of three (3) square feet
per bird. The run can have a dirt surface. The coop and run shall be built to
keep animals from gaining entry and shall be built in a workmanlike manner from
quality materials. Any feed shall be stored in steel sealed containers.
   (D)   No person shall, within the corporate limits, own, keep, or harbor
live roosters or bantam chickens. The unlawful keeping or harboring of said
animals is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (E)   The owner of any chickens shall keep all structures wherein such fowl
are kept in a clean and sanitary condition so as not to give off offensive
odors that are a source of discomfort to persons residing in the vicinity
thereof. The owner of any chickens shall not allow offal, manure, and waste
material of such animal to accumulate or remain in the structures or areas upon
which such chickens reside or are confined. Furthermore, the owner shall not
dispose of offal, manure, and waste material or any other matter associated
with the chickens in city trash or other city services or facilities. The
maintenance or permitting of any of the foregoing conditions on any such lot or
parcel of ground is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The owner of any
chickens shall in a sanitary manner remove or dispose of all offal, manure, and
waste material accumulating from such chickens at least once every thirty (30)
days.
   (F)   Application for a permit to keep chickens shall be made to the Clerk,
in writing, upon forms provided for that purpose by the Clerk. Such application
shall contain the following information and documents in addition to such other
information as the Clerk may desire:
      (1)   Name and residence of applicant;
      (2)   Location of premises where chickens are to be kept;
      (3)   The number of chickens to be kept (not less than two (2) or more
than eight (8));
      (4)   Statement of the method in which offal, manure and waste material
accumulating from such chickens will be sanitarily disposed of;
      (5)   Attached diagram or plat of premises, showing dimensions of
premises, the location and dimensions of the coop and run, and the distance
from residence buildings, and property lot lines, either on the same lot or on
adjacent property;
      (6)   Written consent by the applicant for law enforcement and city
personnel to inspect the coop and run; and
      (7)   Written consent by any neighbor whose residence is within fifty
(50) feet of the applicant's proposed coop or run.
   (G)   Applications for a permit to keep chickens shall be accompanied with
an application fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   (H)   Any permit issued to keep any chickens shall be subject to revocation
or suspension by the Clerk upon certification from law enforcement of a
violation by the permittee of any of the provisions of this section or of the
refusal of an inspection of a permittee's coop or run.
   (I)   All permits issued to keep any chickens shall expire on May 31
following the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked, and no permit shall be
assignable or transferable either as to permittee or location.
(Ord. No. 966, 9/14/21)   
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS MISDEMEANORS
§ 6-301 MISDEMEANORS; IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a Municipal or State Police
Officer to wear an official badge or uniform, or to falsely and willfully
impersonate the said officials.
§ 6-302 MISDEMEANORS; REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist a Municipal Police
Officer when lawfully requested to do so by him.
§ 6-303 MISDEMEANORS; RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any Municipal Policeman when
such officer is in the lawful performance of his duties.
§ 6-304 MISDEMEANORS; ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or Municipal
official in the execution of his office.
§ 6-304.5 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer's official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the state or any county, city, or village for the purpose of
assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Ref. 28-906 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 6-304.5, 2/12/13)
§ 6-305 MISDEMEANORS; TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the Municipality, or to break, cut, or injure any tree, shrub, plant,
flower, or grass growing thereon, or without the consent of the owner or
occupant to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence
purposes and to loiter about the same.
§ 6-306 MISDEMEANORS; MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully, or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another.
§ 6-307 MISDEMEANORS; LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than three hundred ($300.00) dollars shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-512, 28-514 RS Neb.)
§ 6-308 MISDEMEANORS; CONCEALING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Any person who receives or conceals stolen property, goods, or chattels of
any kind with the intent to defraud the owner, or whoever receives or conceals
any money or other accountable receipts and evidences of ownership shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 6-309 MISDEMEANORS; ARSON.
   Any person who willfully or maliciously sets on fire any property when the
injury or damage therefrom shall be of a less value than thirty-five ($35.00)
dollars, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-503 RS Neb.)
§ 6-310 MISDEMEANORS; INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by them, shall make an application to
the Governing Body to do so, and the written permit of the Governing Body in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so. (Amended by Ord. No.
299, 10/10/77)
§ 6-311 MISDEMEANORS; FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle, or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
§ 6-312 MISDEMEANORS; FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or the Assistant Fire Chief to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of
the Fire Department at any time.
§ 6-313 MISDEMEANORS; TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or
negligently place or throw upon the premise of another any filth, garbage,
leaves, papers, or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant
thereon. (Ref. 28-591 RS Neb.)
§ 6-314 MISDEMEANORS; DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five (5) and no more than fourteen (14) persons behind the
driver with a physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger
compartment. LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or
shuttles, or buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in sections 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c) RS Neb., any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   (i)   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            (ii)   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this Municipality.
   (C)   Except as provided in section 10-120 of this Code or division (D) of
this section, it is unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this Municipality; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this Municipality.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 75, Article 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this Municipality if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver's seat, including any compartments
in such area. (Ref. 60-6,211.08 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 742, 7/11/00;
10-122, 5/8/12)
§ 6-315 MISDEMEANORS; MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to represent that he is of the age of
nineteen (19) years for the purpose of asking for, purchasing, or receiving any
alcoholic beverages. (Ref. 53-103 RS Neb.)
§ 6-316 MISDEMEANORS; MINOR IN POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, defined by Chapter 53 of the Revised
Statutes of the State of Nebraska to be a minor for the purpose of that
Chapter, to transport, knowingly possess, or have under his control in any
motor vehicle, beer or other alcoholic liquor on any public street, alley,
roadway, or property owned by the State of Nebraska or any subdivision thereof,
or any other place within the Municipal limits. (Amended by Ord. No. 404, 3/8/
83)
§ 6-317 MISDEMEANORS; POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear,
deface, remove, or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person,
firm, or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and lawfully
posted, and the same remains of value.
§ 6-318 MISDEMEANORS; POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste, or paint any sign,
advertisement, or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building, or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
§ 6-319 MISDEMEANORS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the Municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Governing Body. (Ref.
17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-320 MISDEMEANORS; CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person who
carries a weapon or weapons concealed on or about his or her person such as a
revolver, pistol, bowie knife, dirk or knife with a dirk blade attachment,
brass or iron knuckles or any other deadly weapon commits the offense of
carrying a concealed weapon.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense that the defendant was engaged in any
lawful business, calling, or employment at the time he or she was carrying any
weapon or weapons and the circumstances in which such person was placed at the
time were such as to justify a prudent person in carrying the weapon or weapons
for the defense of his or her person, property, or family.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person who is the holder of a valid
permit issued under the Concealed Handgun Permit Act if the concealed weapon
the defendant is carrying is a handgun defined in section 69-2429 RS Neb.
(Ref. 28-1202 RS Neb.)
§ 6-321 MISDEMEANORS; SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the Municipality. (Ref. 17-207 RS Neb.)
§ 6-322 MISDEMEANORS; FIREWORKS DEFINED.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks
at wholesale in this state to any person engaged in the business of making
sales or fireworks either as a jobber or as a retailer or both.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
      (1)   COMMON FIREWORKS. Any small firework device designed to produce
visible effects by combustion and which is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations of the United
States Consumer Product Safety Commission set forth in 16 C.F.R., small devices
designed to produce audible effects such as whistling devices, ground devices
containing fifty (50) milligrams or less of explosive composition and aerial
devices and firecrackers containing one hundred thirty (130) milligrams or less
of explosive composition. Class C explosives as classified by the United States
Department of Transportation shall be considered common fireworks.
      (2)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Those materials manufactured exclusively for use
in public exhibitions or displays of fireworks designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. Includes but is not
limited to firecrackers containing more than one hundred thirty (130)
milligrams of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than forty
(40) grams of explosive composition and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as common fireworks. Class B explosives as classified
by the United States Department of Transportation shall be considered display
fireworks. Display fireworks shall be considered an explosive as defined in
section 28-1213 RS Neb. and shall be subject to sections 28-1213 to 28-1239 RS
Neb., except that display fireworks may be purchased, received and discharged
by the holder of an approved display permit issued pursuant to section 28-
1239.01 RS Neb.
      (3)   PERMITTED FIREWORKS. Only sparklers, vesuvius fountains, spray
fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells
without explosive charge for the purpose of making a noise, lady fingers, not
to exceed seven-eighths (7/8) of an inch in length or one-eighth (1/8) inch in
diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed fifty (50) milligrams in
weight, color wheels and any other fireworks approved under section 28-1247 RS
Neb.
   JOBBER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
wholesale to any other person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
retail to consumers or to persons other than distributors or jobbers.
   SALE. Includes barter, exchange or gift or offer therefor and each such
transaction made by any person, whether as principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee. (Ref. 28-1241 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 493, 11/8/88)
§ 6-322.01 MISDEMEANORS; FIREWORKS; PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be
exploded fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except those
that comply with current Nebraska law, and State Fire Marshal regulations, and
then only on and between June 24 and July 5 of each year.
      (b)   On the 4th of July fireworks may be discharged between the hours of
8:00 A.M. and 12:00 midnight; on all other days discharge of fireworks shall be
limited to 12:00 noon to 10:30 P.M. If the 3rd of July falls on a Friday or
Saturday, discharge of fireworks will be between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 12:
00 midnight.
   (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purposes of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
City Council or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal. (Ref. 17-556, 28-1241, 28-
1244, 28-1245 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 494, 11/8/88) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 915, 12/10/13; 944, 8/14/18; 958,
8/11/20; 965, 6/8/21)
§ 6-323 MISDEMEANORS; ASSAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault or threaten any other person
or persons. Any person who assaults another person or persons shall be deemed
to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-411 RS Neb.)
§ 6-324 MISDEMEANORS; PROVOKING ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the Municipality to
intentionally provoke or attempt to provoke an assault upon himself or another
by the uttering of insulting words, cursing and swearing, or to use slander
against any other person. Upon conviction a fine not to exceed ten ($10.00)
dollars shall be assessed. (Ref. 28-412 RS Neb.)
§ 6-325 MISDEMEANORS; ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, threaten, strike, or injure
any other person or persons. Any person who assaults or batters another person
or persons shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-411 RS Neb.)
§ 6-326 MISDEMEANORS; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the Municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts,
by force or violence against the Municipality, or residents therein, or who
shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality.
Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-818 RS Neb.)
§ 6-327 MISDEMEANORS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise, or otherwise conduct themselves in such a way
as to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 17-
129, 17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-328 MISDEMEANORS; MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to willfully destroy,
mutilate, deface, injure, or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, structure,
or thing of value which is located upon any government property, cemetery, or
property of historic value. Conviction of such misdemeanor shall be punishable
by a fine not less than five ($5.00) dollars, nor more than one hundred
($100.00) dollars.
   Any such offender shall also be liable, in an action for trespass in the
name of the beneficial holder of said property, for all damages which arise
from the commission of such unlawful act. (Ref. 12-519 RS Neb.)
§ 6-329 MISDEMEANORS; DISTURBING AN ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to disturb, interrupt, or
interfere with any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or otherwise,
by loud and unnecessary noise, threatening behavior, or indecent and shocking
behavior. Any person or persons so disturbing an assembly shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in accord with State statute. (Ref. 28-801
through 28-803 RS Neb.)
§ 6-330 MISDEMEANORS; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for three (3) or more persons to assemble together upon
any sidewalk or street thereof, in front of or adjacent to any store, shop, or
other place of business, so as to obstruct the public right-of-way along said
street or sidewalk, or entrance to said place of business, or so as to obstruct
or injure the carrying on or any lawful business in any of the places aforesaid
within the limits of the Municipality. (Ref. 28-804 RS Neb.)
§ 6-331 MISDEMEANORS; LITTERING.
   (1)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (a)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (b)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (2)   The word litter as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. Waste material as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material's function or origin.
   (3)    Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering. (Ref. 28-523 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 611, 2/14/95)
§ 6-332 MISDEMEANORS; PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
§ 6-333 MISDEMEANORS; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he shall first remove all
doors and make the same reasonably safe. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 6-334 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same.
§ 6-335 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
§ 6-336 MISDEMEANORS; REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb, or take
away from any street, alley, or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones, or
other materials forming a part of such street, alley, or public grounds without
first having obtained written permission to do so from the Governing Body.
§ 6-337 NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the City of Plainview, Nebraska shall keep such real
estate free from any nuisance as provided for by the Municipal Code for the
City of Plainview, Nebraska.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to maintain, use, place,
deposit, leave or permit any of the general and specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things identified in §§
4-301 and
4-302.
   (C)   If the owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate
limits or zoning jurisdiction of the City of Plainview, Nebraska fails to
comply with an order to abate and remove a nuisance after proper notice and
procedure pursuant to §
4-302, said owner or occupant shall, upon conviction of violating this section,
be guilty of an offense and punished pursuant to §
12-101.
(Ref. 17-563 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 665, 7/8/97; 837, 2/8/05; 920, 2/
26/14; 6-337, 12/8/15; 942, 2/13/18; 981, 9/13/22)
§ 6-338 MISDEMEANORS; DISEASED OR DYING TREES.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 610, 2/14/95)
§ 6-339 MISDEMEANORS; RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference; provided, that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use
of necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference
cannot be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates, or
causes to be operated, any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually
with radio and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 6-340 MISDEMEANORS; ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid in transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six (6) hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on any
public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours, after
the parking of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any
public property on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a
City law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-
registered owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the City pursuant to a
City ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on any
public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours, after
the parking of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any
public property on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a
City law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-
registered owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the City pursuant to a
City ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than thirty (30) days after a local governmental
unit, pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to
each of the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home,
stating that the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title
as set forth in section 60-1903 RS Neb.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under section 28-431 RS
Neb. shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in section 71-
4603 RS Neb. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home
for which an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to section 60-
169 RS Neb.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or City-owned property. (Ref. 60-1901 RS Neb.)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid in transit stickers issued pursuant to
section 60-376 RS Neb. affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of five hundred dollars ($500) or
less, title shall immediately vest in the City. Any certificate of title issued
under this division to the City shall be issued at no cost to the City. (Ref.
60-1902 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the City shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The City shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within fifteen (15) business days that the vehicle in
question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed,
either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
(5) days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the City thirty (30) days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the City that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
City:
         (a)   Five (5) days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty (30) days after the date the notice is mailed if the City
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After the title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division
(C)(4) of this section, the City may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the City has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the City shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the City intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the City thirty (30) days after the publication.
(Ref. 60-1903 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   If a City law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within fifteen (15) calendar days stating that the
vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no
longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after thirty (30) days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under section 28-431 RS Neb.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees. (Ref. 60-
1903.01 RS Neb.)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in sections 60-1902 and 60-1903 RS Neb.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division is
subject to sections 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 RS Neb. by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within twenty-four (24) hours, the
designated law enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is
removed and provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification
number, if available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name
of the private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the
private towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
division is subject to sections 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 RS Neb. by the
private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking. (Ref. 60-1903.02 RS Neb.)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. under the definition for abandoned vehicle to be removed
from public property in this City, the state agency shall be entitled to
custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described
in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or 4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. under the definition
for abandoned vehicle to be removed from public property in this City, the
state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the City which shall have custody.
(Ref. 60-1904 RS Neb.)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the City’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the City shall be held by the City
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two (2) years. If not claimed within such two (2)-year period,
the proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the City. (Ref. 60-1905 RS
Neb.)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner's agent, owner's employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
City, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the City or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition. (Ref. 60-1906 RS Neb.)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or 4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. under the
definition of abandoned vehicle. (Ref. 60-1907 RS Neb.)
   (J)   No person other than someone authorized by the City or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty
of an offense. (Ref. 60-1908 RS Neb.)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the City for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle. (Ref. 60-1909 RS
Neb.)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense. (Ref. 60-1911 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 301, 10/10/77; 741,
7/11/00; 922, 2/10/15; 948, 3/12/19; 976, 3/8/22)
§ 6-340.1 MISDEMEANORS; UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway. (Ref. 60-6,168 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
942, 2/13/18)
§ 6-341 MISDEMEANORS; UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the Municipality,
other than Municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than thirty (30) days.
No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public
property for any length of time; provided, this section shall not apply to a
vehicle bearing a valid "In Transit" sticker; a vehicle in an enclosed
building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise, operated in a
lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the  Municipality. Any vehicle
allowed to remain on property in violation of this section shall constitute a
nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Amended by Ord. No. 300, 10/10/77)
§ 6-342 MISDEMEANORS; CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to
ride in or operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley, or other public
place, or to loiter, wander, stroll, loaf, or play in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, or other public places between the hours of 11:00 p.m. of any
day and 6:00 a.m. of the following day except Friday and Saturday when said
hours shall be between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless accompanied by a
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care, custody or control of
said minor, or the minor is engaged in lawful employment or is on an emergency
errand; provided, when an activity of the kind normally attended by minor under
eighteen (18) years terminates after or less than one (1) hour after the
termination of such activity. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 345, 6/9/80; 442, 12/11/84;
941, 12/12/17)
§ 6-343 MISDEMEANORS; DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (a)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (b)   When such person has a concentration of ten-hundreths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of his or her blood;
or
      (c)   When such person has a concentration of ten-hundreths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of his or her breath.
   (2)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, or urine for
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
such blood, breath, or urine.
   (3)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the Municipality
may require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to
have been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
drugs to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath, or urine when the officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person was driving or was in the actual
physical control of a motor vehicle in the Municipality while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in violation of this section.
   (4)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of the state or of ordinances of the Municipality may
require any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the Municipality to submit to a preliminary test of his or her
breath for alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving
traffic violation, or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who
refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath
test results indicated an alcohol concentration in violation of subsection (1)
of this section shall be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit
to such preliminary breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
   (5)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath, or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of subsection (1) of this
section, or if any person refuses to submit to such test or tests required
pursuant to this section, such person shall be subject to the administrative
revocation procedures provided in section 60-6,205 to 60-6,208 RS Neb., and
shall be guilty of an offense.
   (6)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with section 60-6,201 RS Neb., for the test administered and the
analysis thereof if such test was actually made. (Ref. 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-
6,203 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 591, 7/12/94)
§ 6-344 MISDEMEANORS; FALSE REPORTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any peace
officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation of an
alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
   (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the existence
of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or out-of-
hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
   (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such department;
   (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person;
   (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false reporting.
(Ref. 28-907 RS Neb.) (Ord. 709, 8/11/98)
§ 6-345 MISDEMEANORS; CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more but less than fifteen hundred dollars
($1,500.00); or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or if
his or her action results in no pecuniary loss. (Ref. 28-519 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
794, 4/8/03) (Amended by Ord. No. 6-345, 12/8/15)
§ 6-346MISDEMEANORS; SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders
present a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residence as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
      (2)   Sexual offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to
repeat such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex
offender victimization to these children and to society at large, while
incalculable, is exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the City's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sex predators cannot
reside.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
      (2)   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school
which meets the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      (3)   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more
than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
      (4)   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells,
which may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      (5)   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime
listed in Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender
pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act.
      (6)   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under
the Sex Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because
of a high risk of recidivism as determined by the Nebraska State Patrol under
Neb. RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person eighteen (18) years of age or
younger.
   (C)    Sex predator residency restrictions; penalties; and exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any for any
sexual predator to reside within five hundred (500) feet from a school or child
care facility.
      (2)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the to the nearest outer property line of
a school or child care facility.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the code.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location. (Ref. 29-4001
- 29-4013 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 848, 3/14/06; Amended by Ord. No. 852, 7/11/06)
§ 6-347MISDEMEANORS; PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, eighteen (18) years of age or over, commits the offense of
public indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other
person to perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be
expected to be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in section 28-318 RS Neb.;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Ref. 28-806 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20)
§ 6-348 MISDEMEANORS; CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in 70-2103 RS Neb. to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed. (Ref. 28-520 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if he or she,
knowing that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is
given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon,
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, unmanned aircraft means an aircraft,
including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(5) of this section.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person. (Ref. 28-521 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 985, 3/14/23) Penalty, see §
12-101
ARTICLE 4: PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-401 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 6-402 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
Article
   
1.   FIRES
   
2.   FIRE PREVENTION
   
3.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: FIRES
§ 7-101 FIRES; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
    The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the Municipal Firemen to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
§ 7-102 FIRES; DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of thirty-six (36) hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or
refuse to obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties. (Ref. 28-730.01 RS Neb.)
§ 7-103 FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the Municipality.
§ 7-104 FIRES; INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty. (Ref. 28-730. 01 RS Neb.)
§ 7-105 FIRES; OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within fifteen (15) feet of the said hydrant. Any
vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be  immediately removed by the
Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense
of the owner or claimant. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 7-106 FIRES; ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property. (Ref. 28-730.01 RS Neb.)
§ 7-107 FIRES; DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department. (Ref. 39-682 RS Neb.)
§ 7-108 FIRES; FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PREVENTION
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this Code and made a part of this Article as though spread at
large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three (3) copies
of the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall
be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-
902, 19-922, 81-502 RS Neb.)
§ 7-202 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all Municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 7-203 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the Municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits:
   All of Blocks One, Two, Four, Five, original Town of Plainview, all of Block
Eight except Lots 13 through 25, and all of Block Nine except Lots 1 through 4
and 17 through 20; in Kimball and Blairs Addition to Plainview, Nebraska. (Ref.
17-550 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 732, 3/9/00)
§ 7-204 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls
constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other
such noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said
structure will be reasonably fireproof. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-205 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement, or
near any curb, now built or hereafter to be built, within the Municipality.
(Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 7-206 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out certain fires; provided, that the
person building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fireproof
trash burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen of not more than one
(1") inch mesh, and located at least twenty (20') feet from any building. The
incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning
paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of
his trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and maintained
in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built after
seven (7:00) o'clock A.M. and completely extinguished by eight (8:00) o'clock
P.M., except the aforesaid fires used in the course of a trade which shall be
allowed during such hours as the Fire Chief shall prescribe. It shall be
unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn, or cause to be burned any
garbage, animal matter, or vegetable matter. The burning of straw, hay, leaves,
or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and allowed; provided, that the
person setting out the same request permission and receive an open burning
permit in writing, signed by the local Fire Chief, on a form provided by the
State Fire Marshal; and provided further, that any such burning shall be done
while the said fire is attended by the person setting out the same at all
times, and further provided that the said fire shall be located at least twenty
(20') feet from any building. (Ref. 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. No. 399, 9/14/82)
§ 7-207 FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING BAN, WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A) of
this section for an area under the municipal Fire Department's jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to
conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a
form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the municipal Fire
Department's jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) of this
section.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed ten dollars
($10.00) for each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the
governing body for inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire
Department. These funds shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire
Department. No such fee shall be collected from any state or political
subdivision to which such a permit is issued to conduct open burning under
division (B) of this section in the course of that state's or political
subdivision's official duties. (Ref. 81-520.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 359, 10/13/
80) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 398, 9/14/82; 612, 2/14/95; 7-207, 5/8/12)
ARTICLE 3: PENAL PROVISION
§ 7-301 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Article
   
1.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
   
2.   SIDEWALKS
   
3.   STREETS
   
4.   CURB AND GUTTER
   
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 8-101 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The term “sidewalk space,” as used herein, shall mean that
portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent property lines.
§ 8-102 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Governing Body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the Municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances.  (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§ 8-103 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
City to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three (3) consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the City.
   (D)   (1)   If within thirty (30) days after the third publication of the
notice a remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to 32-628 RS Neb.;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the City equal in number to
thirty percent (30%) of the registered voters of the City voting at the last
regular City election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the City Council, that property shall not then,
nor within one (1) year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the thirty (30)-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
City or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
City or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one (1) person is registered by that name,
the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within forty (40) days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than twenty (20) signatures on one (1)
signature page shall be counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within thirty (30) days after the receipt
of the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the City may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of sections 18-1001 through 18-1006 RS Neb.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the thirty (30)-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale. (Ref. 17-503 RS Neb.)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00). Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of
the property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three (3) prominent places
within the City for a period of not less than seven (7) days prior to the sale
of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of
the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required. (Ref. 17-503.01 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 402, 9/14/82; 592, 7/12/94; 652, 2/13/96; 710, 8/11/98;
817, 3/9/04; 942, 2/13/18; 985, 3/14/23)
§ 8-103.01 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the City to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three (3) prominent places
within  the city for a period of not less than seven (7) days prior to the sale
of the property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than
$5000, notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the City at least seven (7) days
prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general description
of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
subsection (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency. (Ref. 17-
503.02 RS Neb.)
§ 8-104 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The Municipality shall have the power to remove all obstructions from
the sidewalks, curbstones, gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person
placing them there or at the expense of the Municipality and to require and
regulate the planting and protection of shade trees in and along the streets
and the trimming and removing of such trees.
   (B)   The Municipality shall have the power to regulate the building of
bulkheads, cellar and basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways,
awnings, hitching posts and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other
structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all other excavations
through and under the sidewalks in the Municipality. (Ref. 17-555 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 8-107, 12/8/15)
§ 8-104.01 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The Municipality shall have power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other municipal property. (Ref.
17-557 RS Neb.)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five (5)
days' notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such
notice, to remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division
(A), the Municipality through the proper officers may cause such encroachments
to be removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the street fund.
The Governing Body shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the Street Fund. (Ref.17-557.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 5-710, 12/8/15)
Cross references:
   Sidewalks, see
Chapter 8, Article 2
   Streets, see
Chapter 8, Article 3
§ 8-105 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the City Administrator to do so; provided, no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, and more than one-third (1/3)
of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which said
building is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired
shall be granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians
shall be maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall
be protected and lighted in the manner required by the City Administrator
issuing the permit.
§ 8-106 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the City Administrator or his duly authorized agent
to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate limits for growing
weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious weeds are found
growing thereon, he shall notify the owner or occupant thereof, to cut down
such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably done and keep the weeds
cut thereon in like manner during the growing season for weeds. In the event
that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the Municipality is a
nonresident of the Municipality or cannot be found therein the  notice may be
given to any person having the care, custody, or control of such lot or parcel
of land. In the event that there can be found no one within the Municipality to
whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the City Administrator or his
agent to post a copy of the notice on the premise and then to cut or cause the
weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report the cost thereof in
writing to the Governing Body. The cost shall then be audited and paid by the
Municipality and the amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel
of land as a special tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of
the Municipality or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the Municipality
against the owner of the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
§ 8-107 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS,
WHEN REQUIRED.  
   (1)   The Municipality is authorized and empowered to (a) purchase, (b)
accept by gift or devise, (c) purchase real estate upon which to erect, and (d)
erect a building or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, Municipal
building, or community house for housing Municipal enterprises and social and
recreation purposes, and other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and
operate the same for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Municipality.
   (2)   Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the Municipality at a general Municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in section 17-954 RS
Neb., and be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
   (3)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (a)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality and no election shall
be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within thirty (30)
days after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase
or construction is signed by registered voters of the Municipality equal in
number to fifteen percent (15%) of the registered voters of the Municipality
voting at the last regular Municipal election held therein and is filed with
the Governing Body. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a remonstrance
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the Municipality at a general Municipal
election or a special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or
construction is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within
one (1) year following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (b)   The Governing Body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in subdivision (a) of this subsection if the
property can be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an
appraisal, there is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The purchase shall be approved by
the Governing Body after notice and public hearing as provided in section 18-
1755 RS Neb. (Ref. 17-953, 17-953.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 386, 12/8/81) (Amended
by Ord. No. 653, 2/13/96)
§ 8-108 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND
CREATION PROCEDURE.
   The Municipality's Governing Body may, by ordinance, create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing, or repairing
an existing street, alley, water line, sewer line, or any other such
improvement.
   Except as provided in sections 19-2428 to 19-2431 RS Neb., the Governing
Body shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby,
whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same general
purpose. In creating such special improvement district, the Governing Body
shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same
type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law. (Ref. 18-1751 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 478, 9/8/87)
§ 8-109 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a Municipality may include
land adjacent to such Municipality when creating an improvement district, such
as a sewer, paving, water, water extension, or sanitary sewer extension
district. The Governing Body shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby, except as provided in sections 8-316. (Ref. 19-
2427 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 479, 9/8/87)
§ 8-110 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; ACCESS FOR
RECREATIONAL USE.
   (A)   The City shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Governing Body has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The City shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property. (Ref. 18-1755
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 613, 2/14/95)
§ 8-111 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Municipality shall not
purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an
estimated value of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or more unless an
appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real property
appraiser. (Ref. 13-403 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 614, 2/14/95)
§ 8-112 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING;
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and sections 81-
3449 and 81-3453 RS Neb., the Municipality shall not engage in the construction
of any public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct
supervision of an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board
of Engineers and Architects. (Ref. 81-3445 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in section 81-3449 RS Neb.:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the municipality that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance. (Ref. 81-3449 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
section 81-3453 RS Neb.:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in section 46-1212 RS
Neb., the installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the Municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the Municipality as a
part of a public water supply (Ref. 81-3453 RS Neb.)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the Municipality is considered a
public service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a
professional engineer to be in responsible charge of the municipality's
architectural or engineering work. (Ref. 81-3423 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 711, 8/11/
98) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 743, 7/11/00; 835, 2/8/05; 8-112, 5/8/12; 8-112, 12/
8/15)
ARTICLE 2: SIDEWALKS
§ 8-201 SIDEWALKS; OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least ten feet (10') above the surface of said street or walk.
Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the Governing Body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five (5) days after having received a copy
thereof from the City Administrator stating that the Municipality will remove
said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is
not complied with. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the
county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-202 SIDEWALKS; KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five (5) hours after the
cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before ten (10:
00) o'clock A.M. the following day. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
§ 8-202.01 SIDEWALKS; FAILURE TO KEEP CLEAN; ASSESSMENT OF COST.
   When a property owner or occupant within the Municipality has failed to
remove accumulated snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance from an abutting
sidewalk as required by section
8-202 of this Article, it shall be discretionary by the Municipality to remove
such accumulations, or hire the same to be done, and to assess the cost of such
removal against the abutting property owner or occupant as required by law.
(Ref. 17-557, 17-557.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 309, 3/13/78)
§ 8-203 SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 836, 2/8/05)
§ 8-204 SIDEWALKS; REPAIR.
   (A)   Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks, or cause
the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and City
Council deem necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in front
of which such construction or repairs are made, after having given notice:
      (1)   By publication in one (1) issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of such repair or construction. (Ref. 17-
522 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the Governing Body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the municipality’s estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten (10) days
after the date of publication of the notice, notify the Municipality that he or
she will repair the sidewalk within thirty (30) days after such date of
publication;
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
Municipality within the ten (10) days or, having so notified the municipality,
fails to repair the sidewalk within the thirty (30) days, the Municipality will
cause the sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed
against the property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the Municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published. (Ref. 13-310
RS Neb.)
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested. (Ref. 13-312 RS Neb.)
      (3)   For purposes of this division, nonresident property owner means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Ref. 13-314 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the Governing Body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in section 17-524 RS Neb. (Amended by Ord. No. 836, 2/8/05)
§ 8-205 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any sidewalk
shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Administrator. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The City Administrator shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, if it is desired
to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade, or elevation, the City Administrator shall submit the application to the
Governing Body who shall determine whether the permit should be granted or
denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed said sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation than so
designated by the Municipality. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on
the established grade, or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then
on the grade or elevation indicated by the City Administrator.
§ 8-206 SIDEWALKS; MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, order the construction of a sidewalk
on any lot or piece of ground within the Municipality. Notice of the Governing
Body's intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the Municipal
Clerk by publication of notice one (1) time in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality.
   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premise ten (10) days prior to the
commencement of construction. The notice required in this section shall be
prepared by the Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of the
resolution ordering him to construct or cause to be constructed a sidewalk
within thirty (30) days after the date of publication and further that if he
fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the time
allowed, the Municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the
cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as
a special tax against the premise; provided, the notice shall contain the
official estimate of the cost of said construction and no special assessment in
excess of this estimate shall be assessed against the property. In the event
the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies,
the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of the
nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed
on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Ref. 17-522, 17-523 RS Neb.)
§ 8-207 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
   Whenever the Municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct
any sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to
be done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one (1) issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality; provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten (10) days after
the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the Governing Body, and the Governing Body shall then award the work
to the lowest responsible bidder. Upon approval of the work, the Governing Body
may require the contractor to accept payment in certificates issued to him by
the Municipal Clerk entitling him to all assessments or special taxes, against
such real estate whenever such assessments or special taxes, shall be collected
together with the interest or penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall
give the legal description of the lot, lots, or parcel of ground against which
the assessments or special taxes are assessed. Such certificate or certificates
may be assigned and transferred, entitling the holder to the same rights as if
held by the original contractor. The County Treasurer shall pay over to such
contractor or other holder of the certificate or certificates all assessments
or special taxes against such real estate, together with the interest and
penalty thereon, at any time upon presentation of such certificate or
certificates after said assessments or special taxes against such real estate
together with interest or penalty thereon shall have been collected.
§ 8-208 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than sixty (60%) percent
of the front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment
for sidewalk improvements, petition the Governing Body to make the same, the
Governing Body shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been
ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in
fee simple of property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
Governing Body may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
Article upon the freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the
Municipality an agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will
pay the engineering service fee and all other incidental construction costs
until paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the
freeholder desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner
gives and grants to the Municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of
such construction against the freeholder's real estate  abutting the sidewalk
improvement and promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of
such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed, and specially assessed
as provided by law. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the
county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Amended by Ord. No. 336, 11/12/79)
ARTICLE 3: STREETS
§ 8-301 STREETS; NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Governing Body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
Governing Body may require. It shall be the duty of the Municipal official in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
§ 8-302 STREETS; OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipality shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
Municipality and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue,
alley, or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the Municipality, or
by the owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as
shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street or alley is vacated, the same shall revert to
the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side thereof and
become a part of such property, unless the City reserves title in the ordinance
vacating such street of alley. If the title is retained by the city, such
property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the City.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of such property, unless the
City reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street of alley. If the
title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged,
or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best
interests of the City.
      (4)   When the Municipality vacates all or any portion of a street,
avenue, alley, or lane, the Municipality shall, within thirty (30) days after
the effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating
ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated
property is located to be indexed against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the City the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the City, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, on, or below the
surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the time title to
the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general public or the
abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish such purposes
at any and all reasonable times. (Ref. 17-558 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Municipality shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend
any street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or
annul, vacate, or discontinue the same. (Ref. 17-559 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord.
No. 777, 6/11/02)
§ 8-303 STREETS; EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
chief Municipal street official authorizing such excavations. (Ref. 17-567 RS
Neb.)
§ 8-304 STREETS; DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the City Administrator.
§ 8-305 STREETS; MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
§ 8-306 STREETS; HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
§ 8-307 STREETS; EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the Municipality where
the said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
§ 8-308 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   The City Administrator shall notify the owners in fee simple of real estate
abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is to be put under contract
for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric
service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers
of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued during such
construction. Said notice shall be published one (1) time in a legal newspaper
at least twenty (20) days prior to the beginning of such construction by the
party undertaking such construction and said notice shall state at what date
connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas, water, sewer, and
underground connections must be made prior to the paving or repaving of the
street under construction. After expiration of such time, permits for
excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed, until after the
completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the formal final
acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the Municipality.
§ 8-309 STREETS; PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the Municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the Governing Body in writing. Approval
by that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the Governing Body. Such poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by
said companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the Governing
Body. Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the Governing Body
and the Municipal Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. Said
companies shall, within twenty-four (24) hours after receiving notice, at their
own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances to be removed. The Governing Body shall designate another
location as closely as possible where said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains,
pipe lines, or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed,  or erected in such
a manner that they will not interfere with the water system; sewerage system;
poles, wires, and mains of any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with
travel on the public ways and property. Whenever possible, all pole lines,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys
of the Municipality.
§ 8-309.5 STREETS; STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Governing Body may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel, macadamize,
remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the municipal
corporate area and the area adjoining the Municipality; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in sections 19-2428 through 19-2431 RS Neb. The Governing Body may by
ordinance create improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may
include two (2) or more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public
ways, and may include two (2) or more types of the improvements authorized
under this section in a single district in one (1) proceeding. All of the
improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the
property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided in sections 17-510
to 17-512 RS Neb., except as otherwise provided in section 17-509 RS Neb. (Ref.
17-509 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 942, 2/13/18)
§ 8-310 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the Governing Body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired. The Governing Body sitting as
the Board of Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with
the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the Municipality at least four (4) weeks before the
same shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may
be had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as ''special assessments for improvements'' and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other Municipal taxes and shall be certified  to
the County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said County unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of
the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-511, 17-524 RS Neb.)
§ 8-311 STREETS; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF SNOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after clearing snow from any parking
lot, driveway, or other private property, to deposit said snow on any Municipal
street or sidewalk. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 304, 12/12/77)
§ 8-312 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the Municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the
Municipality. When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to
the Municipality, the Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby. (Ref. 17-509 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 335, 11/12/79)
§ 8-313 STREETS; PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than sixty (60%) percent of the front footage of the property directly abutting
upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds
proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk,
petitioning therefor, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such
work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor,
and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or
adjacent to such street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefited
thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of
such improvement. The Governing Body shall have the discretion to deny the
formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the
Governing Body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Ref. 17-510 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 334, 11/12/79) (Amended by Ord. No. 416, 3/13/
84)
§ 8-314 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the Governing Body deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefited, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create
a paving, graveling, or other improvement district and, after the passage,
approval, and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district for six (6) days in a legal newspaper of the
Municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two (2) consecutive weeks if it is a
weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the Municipality, the
publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than fifty
percent (50%) of the front footage of the property directly abutting on the
street or alley to be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within twenty (20)
days after the first publication of such notice written objections to the
creation of such district, such improvement shall not be made as provided in
such ordinance, but such ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not
filed against the district in the time and manner prescribed in this section,
the Governing Body shall immediately cause such work to be done or such
improvement to be made, shall contract for the work or improvement, and shall
levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to
such street or alley especially benefited in such district in proportion to
such benefits to pay the cost of such improvement. (Ref. 17-511 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 334, 11/12/79) (Amended by Ord. No. 654, 2/13/96)
§ 8-315 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the power by a three-fourths (3/4)
vote of the Governing Body, to create by ordinance a paving, graveling or other
improvement district and to order such work done upon any federal or state
highway in the Municipality or upon a street or route, designated by the Mayor
and City Council as a main thoroughfare that connects, on both ends, to either
a federal or state highway or a county road. The Governing Body shall contract
therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of special benefits,
the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited
thereby. (Ref. 17-512 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 358, 10/13/80)
§ 8-316 STREETS; DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Governing Body of a Municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in section
8-109 which includes land adjacent to the Municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For purposes of this section, AGRICULTURAL USE means the use of
land as described in 77-1359 RS Neb, so that incidental use of the land for
nonagricultural or nonhorticultural purposes shall not disqualify the land and
AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE means designation of any land predominantly for
agricultural or horticultural use by any political subdivision  pursuant to
sections 19-924 to 19-933; Chapter 14, Article 4; Chapter 15, Article 9;
Chapter 16, Article 9; Chapter 17, Article 10 or Chapter 23, Article 1 RS Neb.
The primary objective of the agricultural use zoning shall be to preserve and
protect agricultural activities and the potential for agricultural,
horticultural or open use of land. Uses to be allowed on such lands include
primarily agricultural-related or horticultural-related uses, and
nonagricultural or nonhorticultural industrial, commercial or residential uses
allowed on such lands shall be restricted so that they do not conflict with or
detract from this objective.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Governing
Body of the Municipality within ninety (90) days after creation of an
improvement district as specified in section
8-108. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the Governing Body. The Governing
Body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use, and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the Governing Body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within sixty (60) days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
subdivision 3 of this section.
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within one hundred twenty-five (125) days of the
transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the Municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of six (6%) percent from the dates at which such assessments would have
been payable if no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in subdivision 2 or 3 of this section
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer.  (Ref. 19-2428 through 19-2431 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 417, 3/13/
84) (Amended by Ord. No. 480, 9/8/87)
§ 8-317 STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; DEFINITIONS AND ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 778, 6/11/02)
§ 8-318 STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or
her property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the City or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the City or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the City to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the City. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time, and
place of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of such form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by sections 17-558 and
17-559 RS Neb.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the City.
         (b)   A statement that the City will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities.   
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the City to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule:
An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Ord. No. 465, 11/11/86) (Amended by Ord. No. 778, 6/11/02)
ARTICLE 4: CURB AND GUTTER
§ 8-401 CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever. Said work shall be done only upon order of the City Administrator
by Municipal employees. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 8-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 8-502 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article
   
1.   BUILDING INSPECTOR
   
2.   BUILDING AND ZONING PERMITS
   
3.   BUILDING MOVING
   
4.   BARRICADES AND LIGHTS
   
5.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
   
6.   PLUMBING CODE
   
7.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 9-101 BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The City Administrator or the City Administrator’s authorized designee shall
be the Municipal Official who shall have the duty of enforcing all building and
housing regulations as herein prescribed. All references to a “Building
Inspector” in this Chapter of the Municipal Code shall mean the City
Administrator or the City Administrator’s authorized designee, as the case may
be. The Building Inspector shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered,
built, or moved in the Municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance
with all Municipal ordinances. The Building Inspector shall have the power and
authority to order all work stopped on any construction, alteration, or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein including zoning and
subdivision regulations of the Municipality. The Building Inspector shall issue
permission to continue any construction, alteration, or relocation when he is
satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one,
it shall be followed by a written stop order within twenty-four (24) hours.
Such written order may be served by any Municipal Policeman or by the Building
Inspector, by personally delivering a copy to the property owner, or by leaving
a copy at the property owners usual place of residence.
   Upon receipt of an oral stop order, the property owner in question shall
cause all work to cease upon the construction, alteration, or relocation in
question; and if the oral stop order is followed by a written stop order within
twenty-four (24) hours, no further work shall occur until disposition of an
appeal under Section
9-102 of the Municipal Code. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 314, 5/8/78; 988, 8/8/23)
§ 9-102 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this Chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his agent, or the occupant may file a notice of appeal
within ten (10) days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector has
been made. The Board of Adjustment shall sit and act as the Municipal Board of
Appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by this Code to achieve that end. A copy of
any variance so granted shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the
applicant.
ARTICLE 2: BUILDING AND ZONING PERMITS
§ 9-201 ZONING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect or construct, any
building or dwelling shall file with the City Administrator an application for
a zoning permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished
by the Municipal Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth
the legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is
to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions,
the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such
other information as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and
specifications so filed with the City Administrator shall be checked and
examined by the City Administrator and if they are found to be in conformity
with the requirements of the zoning and subdivision regulations, the City
Administrator shall issue the said applicant a permit. Whenever there is a
discrepancy between permit application procedures contained herein and those
contained in any building code adopted by reference, the provisions contained
herein shall govern. (Ref. 17-130 thru 17-132, 17-550, 17-1001 RS Neb.)
§ 9-202 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (1)   Upon approval of an applicant's zoning permit, the applicant shall
forthwith apply for a building permit before proceeding to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling. The procedure
of filing for a building permit shall be the same as that of the zoning permit.
The application for a building permit shall include a copy of the plans and
specifications for the building to be erected, which shall detail the type of
construction material to be used, together with a sketch of the proposed
structure from an overhead view, and such other information as the City
Administrator shall specify. Approval of the building permit shall be based on
provisions of this Chapter and all other ordinances applicable thereto
excluding the zoning and subdivision regulations which shall be applied only in
the case of the zoning permit. Upon approval of the permit, the City
Administrator shall issue the same to the applicant. The building permit fee
shall be as follows:
   1 - 500 sq. ft         $25.00
   501 - 1000 sq. ft.      $50.00
   1001 - 1500 sq. ft.      $75.00
   1501 and above sq. ft.   $100.00
   Project requiring zoning change, code amendment,
lot split, conditional use permit, or annexation      Add $50.00 per additional
item
   Sign, any cost      $25.00
   Fence   .05¢ per foot, $25.00 minimum
   (2)   For any application filed after construction is started, the fee is
double the rates stated in subsection (1) above, and construction shall be
halted until permit is issued.
   (3)   A survey certified by a licensed surveyor, shall be required on any
project exceeding a total cost of $50,000.00, and in any other case where the
Zoning Administrator deems lot lines to be uncertain. (Amended by Ord. Nos.
410, 12/13/83; 725, 6/8/99; 785, 6/11/02; 805, 5/13/03)
§ 9-202.01 BUILDING PERMITS; DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the City's corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction, if the improvement is two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500)
or more, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Ref. 18-1743 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 333, 11/12/79) (Amended by Ord. No. 819, 3/9/
04; 976, 3/8/22)
§ 9-203 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT; LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
one (1) year of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be discontinued
for a period of one (1) year, the permit shall be void. Before work can be
resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an
original permit.
§ 9-204 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMITS; REQUIRED BEFORE ACTING.
   The City Administrator shall be required to act with reasonable promptness
on any application for a building or zoning permit. BUT IN NO EVENT shall work
be started or continued on any project requiring a zoning or building permit
until the applicant has all necessary permits in his possession. (Ord. No. 315,
5/8/78)
ARTICLE 3: BUILDING MOVING
§ 9-301 BUILDING MOVING; REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the Municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the City Administrator, and shall include the
present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route,
the equipment to be used, and such other information as the City Administrator
may require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by
the County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the
moving of buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the
real estate upon which the said building is presently located. The City
Administrator shall refer the said application to the Municipal Police for
approval of the proposed route over which the said building is to be moved.
Upon approval by the City Administrator he shall then issue the said permit;
Provided, that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in
an amount set by motion of the Governing Body and conditioned upon moving said
building without doing damage to any private or Municipal property is filed
with the City Administrator prior to the granting of any permit. No moving
permit shall be required to move a building that is ten (10') feet wide, or
less, and twenty (20') feet long, or less, and when in a position to move,
fifteen (15') feet high, or less. In the event it will be necessary for any
licensed building mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and
wires, or a gas line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating the
said poles, wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least twenty-four (24)
hours, be present and assist by disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line
relative to the building moving operation. All expense of the said
disconnection, removal, or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the said company's franchise. Whenever the moving of any building
necessitates interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire
belonging to the Municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of the
said building moving operation shall be given to the various Municipal
officials in charge of the Municipal utility departments who shall proceed in
behalf of the Municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary. (Ref. 39-6,177 to 39-6,180,
39-6,184, 77-1725 RS Neb.)
§ 9-302 BUILDING MOVING; DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector shall inspect the premises as to the extent of damages, if any,
resulting from the said relocation and whether any Municipal laws have been
violated during the said operation. Upon a satisfactory inspection by the
Building Inspector, the corporate surety bond, cash, or check shall be returned
to the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is
not properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the
Governing Body may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the
expense of correcting the said conditions. If the expense of correcting the
hazardous condition is greater  than the amount of the deposit set by
resolution of the Governing Body, as required herein, the Governing Body may
recover such excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
ARTICLE 4: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS
§ 9-401 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
Municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this Section and the
Municipal Police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are
erected and maintained as required.
ARTICLE 5: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 9-501 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DEFINITION.
   (1)   The term "unsafe building" as used in this Article is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure:
      (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition,
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair,
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard;
      (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable
to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of such
structure.
   (2)   Specifically within the business district "Fire Limits" as defined by
Section 7-203 of this Code, special requirements shall be imposed in the
definition of Unsafe Buildings. Due to the special risks to public health and
safety in such area, and the value to the community in preserving the overall
integrity of structures therein, within the Fire Limits, the definition of
"Unsafe" shall include any structure which contains or is subject to one or
more of the following conditions:
      (a)   Broken or cracked exterior glass in windows, doors, or any other
glassed area;
      (b)   Loose or broken exterior surfaces of any nature that no longer
provide a sound wall, or create a risk of injury to the public or to
surrounding structures;
      (c)   Insecure doors or windows, which may allow entry to the structure
by unauthorized parties, whether adults or minors;
      (d)   Leaks in the roof, which allow water from any type of precipitation
to enter the interior of the building or neighboring structures having common
walls, and thereby damage or increase the risk of damage to any interior
property, or the basic structure of the subject building or neighboring
structures;
      (e)   Failure of the owner, tenants, or an assigned agent of either of
them, to inspect the inside of the subject premises, no less frequently than
once each calendar month, and make reasonable provision to avoid deterioration
thereof and correct any structural defects, fire hazards or other hazards that
may have arisen during the preceding month.
   (3)   Any such unsafe building in the Municipality is hereby declared to be
a nuisance. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
731, 2/10/2000)
§ 9-502 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the Municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
§ 9-503 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   Whenever the building inspector, the fire official, the health official, or
the Governing Body shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in
the Municipality is an unsafe building, he shall file a written statement to
this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause the
property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of such determination
in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall serve written notice
upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by certified
mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the building has been
declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that such dangerous condition must
be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing
it; and that the condition must be remedied within sixty (60) days from the
date of receipt. Such notice may be in the following terms:
   ''To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the
premise known and described as _________________________________.
   ''You are hereby notified that __________________________________(describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by ____________________________ The
causes for this decision are __________________ (here insert the facts as to
the dangerous condition).
   ''You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within sixty (60)
days from the date of receipt of this notice or the Municipality will proceed
to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Governing Body,
acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten
(10) days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.''
   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken an
appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten (10) days from the time when this notice
is served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the Governing Body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01
RS Neb.)
§ 9-504 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; HEARING AND APPEAL.
   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of
the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the Governing Body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or  demolished. The
Governing Body shall grant such hearing within ten (10) days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the Governing Body's decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the Governing Body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five (5) days from
the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after
the five (5) day period the owner has not begun work, the Governing Body shall
proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the property owner may appeal
such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which
proceedings the decision of the Governing Body shall be stayed. Where the
Municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating
to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply. (Ref.
18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01 RS Neb.)
§ 9-505 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the Municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
§ 9-506 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses to
comply with notice by or on behalf of the Municipality to repair, rehabilitate,
or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the Municipality may proceed with the work specified in the notice to
the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted
to the Governing Body. The Governing Body may (1) levy the cost as a special
assessment against the lot or real estate upon which the building or structure
is located. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments; or (2)
collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and enforce the
collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ref. 18-
1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, 77-1725 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 537, 2/12/91)
ARTICLE 6: PLUMBING CODE
§ 9-601 PLUMBING CODE; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   Any pipe, solder or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
For purposes of this Section, lead free shall mean:
   1) Solders and flux - not more than two-tenths (.2%) percent lead, and
   2) Pipe and pipe fittings - not more than eight (8%) percent lead.
(Ref. 71-5301 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 488, 5/10/88)
ARTICLE 7: PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 9-701 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 9-702 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Article
   
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
2.   ITINERANT SALES
   
3.   BOWLING AND BINGO
   
4.   BUILDING MOVING
   
5.   OCCUPATION TAXES
   
6.   NATURAL GAS
   
7.   TOBACCO SALES
   
8.   PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 10-101 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this Article, the definitions found in sections 53-103
through 53-103.42 RS Neb. shall be used.
§ 10-102 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the Municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-103 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS; LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
one hundred fifty (150) feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for
indigent persons or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition
does not apply to any location within such distance of one hundred fifty (150)
feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to section
53-177.01 RS Neb.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in section 53-133 RS Neb. if the affected church submits a written
request for a hearing. (Ref. 53-177 RS Neb.)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within three hundred (300) feet from the campus of any college or
university within the Municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to section 53-124.15 RS Neb. (Ref. 53-
177.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 10-103, 5/8/12; 10-103, 12/8/15)
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see 53-177.01 RS Neb.
§ 10-104 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premise which has any access which leads from such premise to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premise, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his family, or personal guests. (Ref. 53-178 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-105 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his license
to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premise. (Ref. 53-148 RS Neb.)
§ 10-106 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12 RS
Neb., or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one (1) of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one (1) of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
the stock of that corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under
this section for any reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1)
and (A)(3) of this section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be
ineligible to receive a license under this section for any reason. This
division shall not apply to railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent. (Ref. 53-125 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 357, 10/13/80; 962, 3/9/21)
§ 10-107 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 737, 7/11/00)
§ 10-108 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Retail liquor licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may be
automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the Governing Body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. The Municipal
Clerk, upon notice from the Commission, between January tenth (10th) and
January thirtieth (30th) of each year, shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in, or of general circulation in the Municipality, one (1) time, a
notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each
retail liquor and beer license within the Municipality; Provided, class C
license renewal notices shall be published between the dates of July tenth
(10th) and July thirtieth (30th) of each year. The Municipal Clerk shall then
file with the Commission proof of publication of said notice on or before
February tenth (10th) of each year or August tenth (10th) of each year for
class C licenses. In the event that written protests are filed by three (3) or
more residents of the Municipality against said license renewal, the Municipal
Clerk shall deliver the protests to the Governing Body who shall thereupon
proceed to notify the Commission that they are to require the said licensee to
submit an application. (Ref. 53-135, 53-135.01 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No.
343, 12/10/79)
§ 10-109 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.  
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the City. (Ref. 53-134.03 RS Neb.)
   (B)   During the period of forty-five (45) days after the date of receipt by
mail or electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice
and a copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail, a craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council
may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting
or refusal to grant the license to the applicant. (Ref. 53-131 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within thirty (30) days after determining that such violation
has occurred;
         (b)   Within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of an ongoing
police investigation; or
         (c)   Within thirty (30) days after the verdict in a prosecution
related to such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney
determines that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize
such prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in sections 53-124 and 53-124.01 RS Neb. and pay the
same, after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in section 53-134.04 RS Neb., it determines that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in section 53-133 RS Neb.;
       (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in section 53-131 RS Neb., to fix a time and place for
a hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
(1) time not less than seven (7) and not more than fourteen (14) days before
the time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in
support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the
time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than forty-five (45)
days after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the City Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The City Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed
fifty (50) days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter,
not to exceed fifteen (15) days per calendar year, as provided in sections 53-
123.12 and 53-129 RS Neb.; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in section 14 of this Act. The local
governing body shall electronically notify the Commission within five (5) days
after authorization of any permit pursuant to this division. (Ref. 53-134 RS
Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of section 53-124 RS Neb. the
fee is payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in section 53-135.01 RS Neb.; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
City shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the City in any sum which exceeds two (2) times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license. (Ref. 53-132 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 355, 10/13/80; 737, 7/11/
00; 779, 6/11/02; 10-109, 5/8/12; 976, 3/8/22)
§ 10-110 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premise in violation of any Municipal Code section or Nebraska
Statute. (Ref. 53-1,10 RS Neb.)
§ 10-111 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act of
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him personally. (Ref. 53-1,102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-112 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under section 53-124 RS Neb., a craft brewery license, a microdistillery
license, or a farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license as
prescribed in this section. The catering license shall be issued for the same
period and may be renewed in the same manner as the retail license, craft
brewery license, or farm winery license.
   (B)   Any person desiring to obtain a catering license shall file with the
Commission:
      (1)   An application in triplicate original upon such forms as the
Commission prescribes; and
      (2)   A license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) payable to the
Commission, which fee shall be returned to the applicant if the application is
denied.
   (C)   (1)   When an application for a catering license is filed, the
Commission shall notify, by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested with postage prepaid:
         (a)   The Clerk of the city in which such applicant is located; or
         (b)   If the applicant is not located within a city or incorporated
village, the county clerk of the county in which such applicant is located.
      (2)   The Governing Body and the Commission shall process the application
in the same manner as provided in section 53-132 RS Neb.
   (D)   The Governing Body, with respect to catering licensees within its
liquor license jurisdiction as provided in section 53-132(5) RS Neb. may cancel
a catering license for cause for the remainder of the period for which such
catering license is issued. Any person whose catering license is canceled may
appeal to the District Court of the county in which the local governing body is
located.
   (E)   The Governing Body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
Governing Body as provided in section 53-132(5) RS Neb. The tax may not exceed
double the license fee to be paid under this section. (Ref. 53-124.12 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 780, 6/11/02)
§ 10-113 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SALE OF GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT
PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Ref. 53-180 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 354, 10/13/80; 10-113, 5/8/12)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see 17-135 RS Neb.
§ 10-114 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers. (Ref. 53-183 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 10-114, 5/8/12; 922, 2/10/15)
§ 10-115 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPIKING BEER.
   (Repealed 2010)
§ 10-116 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles,
casks, or other containers except in the original package. (Ref. 53-184 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-117 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day except:
      (1)   As provided below; and
         Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
            Secular Days
               Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
               On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
            Sundays
               Off Sale   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
               On Sale   12:00 Noon to 2:00 A.M.
         Beer and Wine
            Secular Days
               Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
               On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
            Sundays
               Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
               On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
      (2)   Except that the City Council with respect to area inside the
corporate limits of the City may by ordinance or resolution:
         (a)   Require closing prior to 1:00 A.M. on any day;
         (b)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members
of the City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 A.M. and prior to 2:00 A.M. on any day;
         (c)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members
of City Council, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 A.M. and prior to 2:00 A.M. on any day;
         (d)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members
of City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 A.M. and prior to 2:00 A.M. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the City Council,
no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the City between the hours of 6:00 A.M. Sunday
and 1:00 A.M. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12:00 Noon on
Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of a Class
C license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of fifteen (15) minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed
premises and 6:00 A.M. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 326, 6/11/79; 385, 12/8/81; 543, 10/8/91; 890, 3/8/11;
922, 2/10/15)
§ 10-118 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premise
shall be subject to any health inspections the Governing Body or the Municipal
Police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.
§ 10-119 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of nineteen (19) years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors,
including beer, to said licensee's customers.
§ 10-120 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO
THE PUBLIC; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in section 53-186(2) RS Neb. or as provided in section 60-
6,211.08 RS Neb., it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor
upon property owned or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision
thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such
property. (Ref. 53-186 RS Neb.)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under section 60-6,211.08 RS Neb. (Ref. 53-186.01 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 362, 12/10/80; 736, 7/11/00; 10-120, 5/8/12)
§ 10-121 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic
liquors which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly
licensed to sell same to such person under provisions of the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act; Providing, nothing herein shall prevent the possession of
alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his family and guests,
nor prevent the making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the
maker, his family and guests; provided further, nothing herein shall prevent
any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing or using
alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his profession, or any hospital or
institution caring for the sick and diseased persons, from possessing any
alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients of such hospital or
other institution; Provided further, that any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors in the compounding of
prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and Provided further, that the
possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of any
church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious ceremony
conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this section; Provided
further, that persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older may carry beer
from grocery stores when they are accompanied by a person not a minor, persons
who are sixteen (16) years old or older may handle beer containers and beer in
the course of their employment in grocery stores, and persons who are sixteen
(16) years old or older may remove and dispose of alcoholic liquor containers
for the convenience of their employer and customers in the course of their
employment as waiters, waitresses, or busboys, by any restaurant, club, hotel,
or similar organization; and Provided further, that persons who are nineteen
(19) years old or older may serve or sell alcoholic liquor in the course of
their employment. (Ref. 53-102, 53-175 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 353, 10/13/
80)
§ 10-122 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPECIAL SUNDAY SALES.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 326, 6/11/79)
§ 10-123 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR
QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
twenty- four (24) hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
section 71-423 RS Neb.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress. (Ref. 53-1,121 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 332, 11/
12/79) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 384, 12/8/81; 954, 2/11/20)
§ 10-124 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is twenty-one (21)
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark. (Ref.
53-116.01 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 352, 10/13/80) (Amended by Ord. No. 962, 3/9/21)
§ 10-125 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five (5) residents of the Municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Governing Body stating that any retail or bottle club
licensee, subject to the jurisdiction of the Governing Body, has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Governing Body and shall be signed and sworn by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule,
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the Governing Body is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the fact alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten (10) days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve
notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the
particular charge in the complaint; Provided, that the complaint must in all
cases be disposed of by the Governing Body within thirty (30) days from the
date the complaint was filed by resolution thereof, said resolution shall be
deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission as provided by law. (Ref. 53-1,114 RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 351, 10/13/80)
§ 10-126 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   A.    Notice. Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. section
53-134 shall be given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain
the date, time, and location of the hearing. Two (2) or more proceedings which
are legally or factually related may be heard and considered together unless
any party thereto makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the Governing Body that
prejudice would result there from.
   B.    Procedure. Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Municipal
Attorney. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial action.
Each witness may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by question
and answer.
   The Governing Body or the applicant may order the hearing to be recorded by
the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
   The Governing Body may admit and give probative effect to evidence which
possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent individuals.
The Municipal Attorney may limit testimony where it appears incompetent,
irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any application
and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments and to cross-
examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such application, they
shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who shall notify the
Municipal Attorney of his/her representation prior to the start of the hearing.
   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
   1.    Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to the
Municipal Attorney during the presentation;
   2.    Presentation of evidence, witnesses, and arguments by applicant;
   3.    Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed license;
   4.    Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by Municipal Attorney,
Governing Body, or duly appointed agent;
   5.    Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by spokesperson
for opposition, if any;
   6.    Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
   7.    Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license.
   8.    Presentation of evidence by Municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
   9.    Cross-examination by applicant;
   10. Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by Municipality administration
and agent;
   11. Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the party
filing the application.
   Any member of the Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney may question any
witness, call witnesses, or request information.
   All witnesses shall be sworn.
   The Governing Body may make further inquiry and investigation following the
hearing.
   The Governing Body or the applicant may order the hearing to be recorded by
the Clerk, at the expense of the applicant(s).
(Ref. 53-134 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 457, 7/8/86) (Amended by Ord. No. 513. 11/14/
89)
§ 10-127 LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING
RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Local governing bodies shall only have authority to approve applications and
deny licenses pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. The Governing Body
shall only consider the following licensing standards and criteria at the
hearing and an evaluation of any applicant for a retail alcoholic liquor
license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic liquor, or for the
expansion or change in location of the premises, and for the purpose of
formulating a recommendation from the Governing Body to the Nebraska Liquor
Control Commission in accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act:
   a.    The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area;
   b.    The recommendation of the Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency;
   c.    Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
   d.    Zoning restrictions and the local governing body's zoning and land-use
policies;
   e.    Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
   f.   The existence of a citizen's protest and similar evidence in support of
or in opposition to the application;
   g.    The existing population and projected growth within the jurisdiction
of the local governing body and within the area to be served;
   h.   The existing liquor licenses, the class of each such license, and the
distance and times of travel between establishments that issued such licenses;
   i.   Whether the proposed license would be compatible with the neighborhood
or community where the proposed premises are located;
   j.   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated or
presently operated in conjunction with the proposed license is and will be
consistent with the public interest as declared in section 53-101.01;
   k.   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with section
53-102;
   l.   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect against the
possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic liquor, which alcoholic liquor shall be
displayed and kept in and sold from an area which is reasonably secured;
   m.   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly provide the
service proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of and
rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
   n.   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management and
control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure that
the licensee can conform to all the provisions and requirements of and rules
and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to the act;
   o.   The background information of the applicant established by information
contained in the public records of the Commission and investigations conducted
by law enforcement agencies;
   p.   Past evidence of discrimination involving the applicant as evidenced by
findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the local
governing body, any other governmental board or agency of the local governing
body, any other governmental unit, or any court of law;
   q.   Whether the applicant or the applicant's representatives suppressed any
fact or provided any inaccurate information to the commission or local
governing body or the employees of the commission in regard to the license
application or liquor investigations. The applicant shall be required to
cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the investigating agents of the
local governing body;
   r.   Proximity of and impact on schools, hospitals, libraries, parks, and
public institutions;
   s.   Whether activities proposed to be conducted on the licensed premises or
in adjacent related outdoor areas will create unreasonable noise or
disturbance; and
   t.   Compliance with state laws, liquor rules and regulations, and municipal
ordinances and regulations and whether or not the applicant has ever forfeited
bond to appear in court to answer charges of having committed a felony or
charges of having violated any law or ordinance enacted in the interest of good
morals and decency or has been convicted of violating or has forfeited bond to
appear in court and answer charges for violating any law or ordinance relating
to alcoholic liquor.
   It shall be the applicant's duty to produce evidence pertaining to the
designated criteria prescribed in this subsection. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable for
purposes of this section, "applicant" shall be synonymous with "license." (Ref.
53-134 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 458, 7/8/86) (Amended by Ord. No. 512, 11/14/89)
§ 10-128 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five (5)or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser's name and
address, and the number of the purchaser's motor vehicle operator's license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser's signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the
retail establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six (6)
months. The records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for
inspection by any law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at
any other reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of
an offense. (Ref. 53-167.02 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) with an altered or removed
keg identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an
offense. (Ref. 53-167.03 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 10-128, 12/8/15)
ARTICLE 2: ITINERANT SALES
[Editor's Note: This Article was amended in its entirety by Ordinance No. 418,
passed on 3/13/84]
§ 10-201 ITINERANT SALES; DEFINITION.
   A transient merchant, itinerant merchant, or itinerant vendor is defined as
any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or
employee, and whether a resident of the Municipality or not, who engages
temporarily within the Municipality in the business of selling and delivering
goods, wares, and merchandise or taking orders for goods or merchandise, to or
at homes, apartments, or other residential premises in the Municipality. (Ref.
17-134, 75-323 RS Neb.)
§ 10-202 ITINERANT SALES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for an itinerant vendor to engage in such business
within the Municipality without first obtaining a license therefor. (Ref. 17-
134, 75-32 thru 75-335 RS Neb.)
§ 10-203 ITINERANT SALES; APPLICATION.
   Applicants for a license shall file a written sworn application signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, and by the
president if a corporation, with the Municipal Clerk, showing the details
required on the form provided by the Clerk. (Ref. 17-134 RS Neb.)
§ 10-204 ITINERANT SALES; FEE.
   The applicant shall pay a license fee set by resolution of the Governing
Body to cover the cost of processing the application and issuing the license.
(Ref. 17-134, 17-525 R Neb.)
§ 10-205 ITINERANT SALES; BOND.
   Before any license shall be issued for engaging in an itinerant business,
such applicant shall file with the Municipal Clerk a bond running to the
Municipality in the sum of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars and executed by
the applicant as principal, and one (1) corporate surety, or two (2) individual
sureties  upon whom service of process may be had in the County, such bond to
be approved by the Municipal Attorney, conditioned that such applicant shall
comply fully with all the provisions of this Code, and the statutes of the
State of Nebraska.
   The above requirements may be satisfied by an alternative method, in lieu of
buying a special bond for the City of Plainview, if the applicant has a surety
bond as an itinerant sales agent with the State of Nebraska. A copy of the
State of Nebraska bond, indicating thereon the effective dates, will be
sufficient to satisfy this bonding requirement. (Amended by Ord. No. 504, 6/13/
89)
§ 10-206 ITINERANT SALES; APPOINTMENT OF AGENT.
   Before any license shall be issued, such applicant shall file with the
Municipal Clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the Municipal Clerk, or
the person performing the duties of such position, his true and lawful agent
with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice or process in
respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business transacted
under such license. (Ref. 17-134, 75-325 RS Neb.)
§ 10-207 ITINERANT SALES; LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   Two forms of licenses may be issued under the itinerant sales provisions, on
either a sixty day basis of a six month basis, in the discretion of the
applicant. The resolution providing for application fees may allow different
fees for the different terms of licenses. (Ref. 17-134, RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. No. 505, 6/13/89)
§ 10-208 ITINERANT SALES; LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The licenses issued may be revoked by the Governing Body after reasonable
notice and a hearing, for any causes deemed by the Governing Body, in their
reasonable discretion, to be sufficient. (Ref. 17-134 RS Neb.)
§ 10-209 ITINERANT SALES; APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Municipal Clerk in regard to the
denial of an application for a license or in connection with the revocation of
a license, shall have the right to appeal to the Governing Body. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Governing Body within fourteen (14) days
after notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known
address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The
Governing Body shall set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and
notice shall be given to such person by registered mail, postage prepaid, at
his last known address. The order of the Governing Body on such appeal shall be
final. (Ref. 17-134, RS Neb.)
§ 10-210 ITINERANT SALES; POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to examine all places of
business and persons subject to the provisions of this Article and to enforce
the provisions herein against any person found to be violating the same. (Ref.
17-134, 75-334 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 3: BOWLING AND BINGO
§ 10-301 BOWLING; HOURS.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 456, 6/10/86)
§ 10-302 BINGO; REGULATION.
   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the Municipality in accordance with
all laws of the Municipality and the State of Nebraska if the said game of
bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed
by the State of Nebraska to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written
permit from the Governing Body before commencing operation of said game.
Application shall be made to the Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof
as the Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the Governing Body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue the said license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit
fee of ten ($10.00) dollars. Said license shall be subject to revocation at any
time for good cause. Any person or persons, so licensed, shall be subject to
any other fees, rules, and regulations which the Governing Body may designate.
All permits so issued will automatically expire on September thirtieth (30th),
following its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal unless otherwise
prescribed shall be in the sum of ten ($10.00) dollars. Said fee shall be
credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any place where
a game of bingo is conducted. (Ref. 9-166 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 436, 9/
11/84)
§ 10-303 BINGO; TAX.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 719, 4/8/99)
§ 10-304 BINGO; QUARTERLY REPORT.
   Each association conducting the game of bingo shall submit a written
quarterly report to the Municipal Clerk covering the preceding calendar quarter
on or before the thirtieth (30th) day of the immediately succeeding calendar
quarter. (Ref. 9-165 RS Neb.)
§ 10-305 BINGO; INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable State statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be, and will constitute, a part of this Article as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any State statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the Municipality as well as against the State. Violators
thereof  shall be separately prosecuted by the Municipality for each of such
offenses, and if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ref. 9-124 thru 9-176 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 4: BUILDING MOVING
§ 10-401 BUILDING MOVING; BOND AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in moving
houses or other buildings or structures from place to place within the
corporate limits of this City without first having given a bond and secured a
permit in writing to do so from the City Administrator.
   Any person or persons engaged in the business of moving houses within the
corporate limits of the City shall execute a good and sufficient bond payable
to the City of Plainview, Nebraska, in any sum not exceeding five thousand
($5,000.00) dollars, with two (2) or more sureties, conditioned for the payment
of any damages sustained by any person or corporation and also any damages
sustained by the City, resulting from the moving of any building or buildings
over and across any street, alley, crossing or culvert within the City. The
amount of said bond shall be determined by the City Administrator.
   Any bond as specified in this Section may be sued upon for the recovery of
any and all damages sustained by any individual or corporation, and also any
damages sustained by the City to any street, alley, culvert or crossing caused
by the moving of any building or buildings over said crossings or culverts,
either under the supervision of the principal or principals or their agents or
their employees.
ARTICLE 5: OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 10-500 LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City shall have power to raise revenue by levying and collecting a
license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the City and
regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant to this
section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of space,
or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax, except that no
occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under sections 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-
2602, or 77-4008 RS Neb. or which is exempt from tax under section 77-2704.24
RS Neb. The occupation tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in section
18-1208 RS Neb., except that section 18-1208 RS Neb. does not apply to an
occupation tax subject to section 86-704 RS Neb. All such taxes shall be
uniform in respect to the classes upon which they are imposed. All scientific
and literary lectures and entertainments shall be exempt from such taxation, as
well as concerts and other musical entertainments given exclusively by the
citizens of the City. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City Council shall have authority, by ordinance, to impose an
occupation tax of not more than five dollars ($5) per annum on each fire
insurance corporation, company, or association, doing business in the City, for
the use, support, and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly
organized under the laws of the state regulating the same. The City Clerk shall
collect with diligence the occupation tax so imposed. Upon the receipt of the
tax the Clerk shall pay over the proceeds thereof to the City Treasurer who
shall credit the same to a fund to be known as special occupation tax fund for
benefit of the volunteer fire department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief
of the Fire Department and allowed by the City Council, the Treasurer shall pay
over the proceeds of the tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the
Fire Department, as hereinbefore provided. (Ref. 35-106 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
City shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the City in any sum which exceeds two (2) times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain such
license. (Ref. 53-132 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 922, 2/10/15)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see 18-1208 RS Neb. 
§ 10-501 OCCUPATION TAX; AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied on the
following businesses:
Alcoholic Beverages
   Retailer of Beer, On and Off Sales, per year   $ 50.00
      Plus $50.00 State License Fee.
   Retailer of Alcoholic Liquors, including Beer, On and Off Sale (Class C) per
year   250.00
   Plus $250.00 State License Fee.
   Retailer of Alcoholic Liquors, including Beer, On Sale only, per
year   200.00
      Plus $200.00 State License Fee
   Retailer of Alcoholic Liquors, including Beer, Off Sale only, (Package
Sales) per year    75.00
Fire Insurance Companies, per year    5.00
(Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 545, 10/8/91)
§ 10-502 OCCUPATION TAX; FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund. (Ref. 35-106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-503 OCCUPATION TAX; COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on the first (1st) day of May
of each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon
the payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said
Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying
the said tax, and the amount paid; Provided, occupation taxes collected from
Class C liquor licensees shall be due and payable on the first (1st) day of
November. The revenue collected shall then be immediately deposited into the
General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an
accurate account of all revenue turned over to him. All forms, and receipts
herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One (1) copy shall then be kept
by each party in the transaction. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-504 OCCUPATION TAX; CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
Occupation Tax Certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person, and business that paid the said tax. The
Occupation Tax Certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
2015 S-24
§ 10-505 OCCUPATION TAX; FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
Municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of one (1%) per cent per month
until paid. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
ARTICLE 6: NATURAL GAS
§ 10-601 NATURAL GAS; FILING FEE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 818, 3/9/04)
ARTICLE 7: TOBACCO SALES
§ 10-701 TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES; LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE; VAPOR PRODUCTS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20)
§ 10-701.1 TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES; LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to persons twenty-one (21) years of
age or over shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability
companies, and corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as
provided in section 28-1422 RS Neb. (Ref. 28-1421 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20) (Amended by Ord. No. 962, 3/9/21)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see section 28-1420 RS Neb.
   Prohibited sales, see section 28-1421 RS Neb.
§ 10-701.2 TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES; LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery system, and packages of tobacco in any
form, at wholesale, shall pay a license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00),
and if such combined annual sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages
of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery system, and packages of tobacco,
the annual license fee shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00) No wholesaler's
license shall be issued in any year on a less basis than $100 per annum unless
the applicant shall file with the application a statement duly sworn to by
himself or herself, or if applicant is a partnership, by a member of the firm,
or if a limited liability company, by a member or manager of the company, or if
a corporation, by an officer or manager thereof, that in the past such
wholesaler's combined sales of cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic
nicotine delivery system, and packages of tobacco in every form have not
exceeded in the aggregate 150,000 annually and that such sales will not exceed
such aggregate amount for the current year for which the license is to issue.
Any person swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense,
and such wholesaler's license shall be revoked until the full license fee is
paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half (½) of the fee provided in this section. (Ref. 28-
1423 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20)
§ 10-701.3 TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES; RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in sections 28-1421 and 28-1422 RS Neb.
shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material by the licensee and
employees, to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or over, at the place of
business described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the
license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in section 28-1425
RS Neb. (Ref. 28-1424 RS Neb.)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to section 28-1425 RS
Neb., all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate. (Ref. 28-
1425 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20) (Amended by Ord. No. 962, 3/9/21)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under twenty-one (21) prohibited; penalties, see section 28-
1425 RS Neb.
§ 10-701.4 TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES; DISPOSITION OF FEES; TRANSFER OF LICENSE;
REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   (A)   Disposition of fees. All money collected as license fees under the
provisions of this chapter shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the
treasurer of the school fund for the City. (Ref.28-1426 RS Neb.)
   (b)   Transfer of license. In case of the sale of a business where the owner
has a license hereunder, the City Clerk may authorize such license to be
transferred to the purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee
hereunder, the Clerk may transfer such license to the new location. (Ref. 28-
1428 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license. In the event that the
license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and forfeited as provided in
section 28-1425 RS Neb., no new license shall be issued to such licensee until
the expiration of one (1) year from the date of such revocation and forfeiture.
(Ref. 28-1429 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 713, 8/11/98) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 922, 2/10/15; 954, 2/11/20)
§ 10-702 TOBACCO; USE OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
    (Repealed by Ord. No. 954)
§ 10-702.1 TOBACCO; USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE (21).
   Whoever, being a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, shall smoke
cigarettes or cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative
nicotine products, or use tobacco in any form whatever in this City, shall be
guilty of an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may
be free from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of
the person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or
tobacco. (Ref. 28-1418 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20) (Amended by Ord. No.
962, 3/9/21)
§ 10-702.2 TOBACCO; SALE TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE (21).
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any
form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) of this section, a person who is at
least fifteen (15) years of age but under twenty-one (21) years of age may
assist a peace officer in determining compliance with such division if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under nineteen (19) years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years acting in
accordance with an under the authority of this division shall not be in
violation of section 28-1427 RS Neb. (Ref. 28-1419 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 954, 2/
11/20) (Amended by Ord. No. 962, 3/9/21)
§ 10-702.3 TOBACCO; MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE
(21) TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in
10-702.2(B), any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years who obtains
cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, or alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by
representing that he or she is of the age of twenty-one (21) years or over, is
guilty of an offense. (Ref. 28-1427 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 954, 2/11/20) (Amended
by Ord. No. 962, 3/9/21)
ARTICLE 8: PENAL PROVISIONS
§ 10-801 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
§ 10-802 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Article
   
1.   MUNICIPAL LIMITS
   
2.   LAND USE PLAN
   
3.   CONFLICTS
   
4.   GROUP HOMES
   
4.5.   BUSINESS RETENTION
   
5.   PENAL PROVISION
ARTICLE 1: MUNICIPAL LIMITS
§ 11-101 MUNICIPAL LIMITS; DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official Municipal Map, and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the Governing Body or by
law duly annexed to or made a part of this Municipality, or having been by the
act, authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their
respective owners, created either as the original townsite or as additions to
the Municipality are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
Municipality. Lawfully constituted additions or changes in said Municipal
Limits shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the Municipal Engineer
after such addition or change has been completed in accordance with the
ordinances of this Municipality and the laws of the State of Nebraska. (Ref.
17-405 thru 17-426, 17-1002, 17-1003 RS Neb.)
§ 11-102 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the Municipality, and
not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this Chapter, including the
Original Plat of the Municipality, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed
as valid, and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and
outlots as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds, and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground, included
within said corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within said
Municipality and an integral part thereof. (Ref. 17-405 thru 17-426, 17-1002,
17-1003 RS Neb.)
§ 11-103 PLANS, PLATS AND THE LIKE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   (Transferred to
Chapter 9, Article 2 as § 9-205)
§ 11-104 MUNICIPAL PLANNING; DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the City is
hereby designated as the City’s extraterritorial jurisdiction for the purpose
of exercising the powers and duties granted by sections 17-1002 and 17-1003 RS
Neb. with respect to subdivisions and platting and section 19-2402 RS Neb. with
respect to extension of water or sanitary sewer service. The boundaries of the
territory so designated shall be as shown on the official zoning map, a copy of
which is on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City
Clerk. (Ref. 17-1002 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 781, 6/11/02)
§ 11-105 MUNICIPAL PLANNING; SUBDIVISIONS AND ADDITIONS PERMITTED.
   The proprietor or proprietors of any land within the corporate limits of the
City, or of any land within the area designated as the City’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction pursuant to section 17-1002 RS Neb., may lay out such land into
lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other grounds under the name of
________________ Addition to the City of Plainview and may subdivide, plat, or
lay out any such land upon conformance to and compliance with the conditions in
this code and state law. (Ref. 19-916 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 782, 6/11/02)
§ 11-106 MUNICIPAL PLANNING; SURVEY AND PLAT.
   (A)   The owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who shall
subdivide the same into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out any
addition to the City or any part thereof, or suburban lots, shall cause a plat
of such subdivision, with references to known or permanent monuments, to be
made, which shall accurately describe all subdivisions of such tract or parcel
of land, numbering the same by progressive numbers, and giving the dimensions
and length and breadth thereof, and the breadth and courses of all streets and
alleys established therein. (Ref. 17-415 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The map or plat of land within the corporate limits of the City or of
any land within the area designated as the City’s extraterritorial jurisdiction
pursuant to section 17-1002 RS Neb. shall designate explicitly the land so laid
out and particularly describe the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, and
other grounds belonging to such addition. The lots shall be designated by
numbers, and streets, avenues, and other grounds, by names or numbers. Such
plat shall be acknowledged before some other officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds, and shall contain a dedication of the streets,
alleys, and public grounds therein to the use and benefit of the public, and
have appended a survey made by some competent surveyor with a certificate
attached, certifying that he or she has accurately surveyed such addition and
that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, parks, commons, and other
grounds are well and accurately staked off and marked. When such map or plat is
so made out, acknowledged, and certified, and has been approved by the City
Council, the same shall be filed and recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds and County Assessor. (Ref. 19-916 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 783, 6/11/02)
§ 11-107 MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ADDITIONS; INCORPORATION INTO MUNICIPALITY.
   All additions to the City laid out and previously located within the
corporate boundaries of the City shall remain a part of the City. All additions
laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate limits may be included within
the corporate limits and become a part of the City for all purposes whatsoever
at such time as the addition is approved as provided in section 19-916 RS Neb.
If the City Council includes the addition within the corporate limits, the
inhabitants of such addition shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges
and shall be subject to all the laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations of the
City. (Ref. 19- 916 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 784, 6/11/02)
§ 11-108 MUNICIPAL PLANNING; VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   This section shall be known and may be cited as the Plainview Vacant
Property Registration Ordinance.
   (B)   Findings. The City finds and declares that:
      (1)   Vacant properties have the potential to create a host of problems
for Nebraska communities, including a propensity to foster criminal activity,
create public health problems, and otherwise diminish quality of life;
      (2)   Vacant properties have the potential to reduce the value of area
properties, increase the risk of property damage through arson and vandalism,
and discourage neighborhood stability;
      (3)   Vacant properties represent unrealized economic growth in Nebraska
communities;
      (4)   A vacant property registration ordinance allows a municipality to
discourage property vacancy, maintain unoccupied buildings, provide a data base
of vacant properties and their owners, and assess fees for the increased public
costs associated with vacant properties;
      (5)   Fees imposed under a vacant property registration ordinance have
the potential to benefit the owners of vacant properties by helping to finance
additional government services to protect the value and security of such
properties; and
      (6)   Enactment of this vacant property registration section is a proper
exercise of governmental authority to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of community residents and a valid regulatory scheme.
   (C)   Purposes. The purposes of this section are to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of City residents by providing authority for enacting
vacant property registration requirements. Such ordinances will allow
communities to identify and register vacant properties, collect fees to
compensate for the public costs of vacant properties, plan for the
rehabilitation of vacant properties, and encourage the occupancy of vacant
properties.
   (D)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and
other plantings;
         (b)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash, or other
waste;
         (c)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
         (d)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
         (e)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that
the property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
      MUNICIPALITY. A city of the first class, city of the second class, or
village.
      OWNER. The person or persons shown to be the owner or owners of record on
the records of the register of deeds.
      RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A house, a condominium, a townhouse, an apartment
unit or building, or a trailer house.
      VACANT. A residential building or commercial building exhibits evidence
of vacancy.
   (E)   Applications. The City hereby adopts this section dealing with vacant
property registration which applies to any type of either residential or
commercial buildings, located within the corporate limits of the municipality,
except that a vacant property registration ordinance shall not apply to
property owned by the federal government, the State of Nebraska, or any
political subdivision thereof. This section shall create a City-wide vacant
property registration data base and clearly designate a program administrator,
which shall be the City Administrator or his/her designee.
   (F)   Requirements.
      (1)   Owners of vacant property subject to a vacant property registration
ordinance shall be required to register such property with the program
administrator if the property has been vacant for one hundred eighty (180) days
or longer. A vacant prope1ty registration ordinance registration form shall be
in either paper or electronic form, and the following information shall be
required:
         (a)   The name, street address, mailing address, telephone number,
and, if applicable, the facsimile number and email address of the property
owner and his or her agent;
         (b)   The street address and parcel identification number of the
vacant property;
         (c)   The transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to
the owner; and
         (d)   The date on which the property became vacant.
      (2)   (a)   This vacant property registration ordinance requires payment
of a fee one hundred eighty (180) days after initial registration of the vacant
property pursuant to division (F)(1) of this section or three hundred sixty
(360) days after the property becomes vacant, whichever is sooner, and requires
the payment of supplemental registration fees at intervals every six (6) months
thereafter for as long as the property remains on the vacant propetty
registration data base. The initial registration fee shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for a residential property, five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for a commercial property. A supplemental registration fee shall be double the
previous fee amount, with a maximum supplemental registration fee of ten (10)
times the initial registration fee amount. Registration fees may be refundable
for the year preceding the date on which the property is no longer vacant.
         (b)   There is an exemption to the registration and fee requirements
for vacant property that is advertised in good faith for sale or lease.
         (c)   The vacant property registration ordinance provides exemptions
to the registration and fee requirements, including, but not limited to, for
vacant property; but only in the discretion of the City Council upon three-
fourths (¾) majority vote, and then only for a period not to exceed one (1)
year, IF:
            1.   Only considered to be a seasonal residence;
            2.   Damaged by fire, weather, an act of God, or vandalism;
            3.   Under construction or renovation;
            4.   Where the owner is temporarily absent, but who has
demonstrated his or her intent to return; and
            5.   Which is subject to divorce, probate, or estate proceedings.
   (G)   (1)   A subsequent owner or owners of property subject to the vacant
property registration ordinance will assume the obligations of the previous
owner or owners;
      (2)   Property shall be removed from the vacant property registration
database when the property is no longer vacant;
      (3)   Owners of registered property shall submit a plan for occupancy of
the property; and
      (4)   Owners have the right to prior notice and to appeal adverse
decisions of the municipality or the program administrator. Such notice shall
be sent by certified mail to the registered owner at the address maintained in
the Register of Deeds' office at least ten (10) days prior to such adverse
decision.
      (5)   The program administrator or his or her designee may inspect the
interior and exterior of the vacant property upon registration and at one (1)-
year intervals thereafter for so long s the property remains on the vacant
property registration data base. The vacant property registration ordinance may
be enforced by municipal fines for failure to comply with its requirements, of
up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day of violation.
      (6)   The municipality may enforce the collection of vacant property
registration fees by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Unpaid vacant property registration fees and unpaid fines for any violation of
a vacant property registration ordinance shall become a lien on the applicable
property upon the recording of a notice of such lien in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the County in which the applicable property is located.
The lien created under this division shall be subordinate to all liens on the
applicable property recorded prior to the time the notice of such lien under
this division is recorded.
      (7)   The provisions of this section shall be supplemental and in
addition to any other laws of the State of Nebraska relating to vacant
property.
(Ord. No. 949, 5/14/19)
ARTICLE 2: LAND USE PLAN
§ 11-201 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the City of Plainview, Nebraska has been
duly adopted pursuant to state statutory procedure. One (1) copy of the adopted
Plan shall be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for
inspection by any member of the public during office hours. (Ref. 18-132 RS
Neb.)
§ 11-202 ZONING REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements, the Zoning Regulations for the City of
Plainview, Nebraska, as prepared by White, Hamele, and Hunsley, Grand Island,
Nebraska, and published in pamphlet form, have been adopted by Ordinance No.
262, June 10, 1975. One (1) copy of the adopted Zoning Regulations shall be
kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any
member of the public during office hours. (Ref. 18-132, 18-1302 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 530, 531, 2/27/90; 823, 5/11/04, 853, 7/21/06; 916, 2/11/
13; 967, 8/10/21). (Changes in the City Clerk's Office)
§ 11-203 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 1004, 12/17/24)
§ 11-204 ZONING REGULATIONS; MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (1)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure if such
manufactured home bears an appropriate seal which indicates that it was
constructed in accordance with the standards of the Uniform Standard Code for
Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles, the Nebraska Uniform Standards
for Modular Housing Units Act, or the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
   (2)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (a)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (b)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (c)   The home shall comply with all planning and zoning regulations;
   (3)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (a)   The home shall have no less than nine hundred (900) square feet of
floor area;
      (b)   The home shall have no less than an eighteen-foot (18') exterior
width;
      (c)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches (2 ½") for each twelve inches (12") of horizontal run;
      (d)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
      (e)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock; and
      (f)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (4)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (5)   For purposes of this section, manufactured home shall mean (a) a
factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human habitation,
which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or other device
allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does not have
permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and which bears
a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National Manufactured
Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. 3280 et seq. promulgated by
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or (b) a modular
housing unit as defined in section 71-1557 RS Neb., bearing a seal in
accordance with the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act.
(Ref. 19-902 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 615, 2/14/95) (Amended by Ord. No. 718, 4/8/
99) 
§ 11-205 FUEL STORAGE AND PROPANE TANKS.
   All liquid fuel storage and propane storage tanks located within the City
limits of Plainview shall conform in all respects with the statutes of the
State of Nebraska and the regulations of the State Fire Marshal. Construction
or installation of such a tank shall require a building permit, which shall be
processed through regular procedures for building permits. (Ord. 723, 5/11/99)
ARTICLE 3: CONFLICTS
§ 11-301 CONFLICTS.
   Where the provisions adopted in this Chapter conflict with one another or
with the provisions of Chapter 9 of this Municipal Code, the most restrictive
or stringent provisions shall govern.
ARTICLE 4: GROUP HOMES
§ 11-401 GROUP HOMES; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this Article, unless the context otherwise requires, the
term "group home" shall mean a facility licensed by the State of Nebraska in
which at least four (4) but not more than eight (8) persons not including
resident managers or house parents, who are unrelated by blood, marriage, or
adoption reside while receiving therapy, training, or counseling for the
purposes of adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from cerebral palsy,
autism, or mental retardation. (Ref. 18-1744 RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 360, 10/13/80)
§ 11-402 GROUP HOMES; ESTABLISHMENT.
   A group home, as defined in Section 11-401, may be established and operated
in any residential zone within the exercised zoning jurisdiction of the
Municipality, except as limited in Section
11-403. (Ref. 18-1745 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 360, 10/13/80)
§ 11-403 GROUP HOMES; ESTABLISHMENT, EXCEPTIONS.
   Departments and agencies of the state are prohibited from licensing a new
group home if it will be within twelve hundred (1200') feet of an existing
group home, unless the Governing Body grants the proposed facility a
conditional or special use permit. For purposes of this Section, "existing
group home" shall include, in addition to group homes defined in Section
11-401, a home of any size which serves other populations, including but not
limited to correctional homes and homes which serve people recuperating from
the effects of drugs or alcohol, mental illness, or physical disability.
   The number of group homes established in the Municipality shall be limited
according to the population of the Municipality, except that the Governing Body
may issue a variance to allow additional group homes. For the Municipality with
a population of one thousand (1,000) residents or less, one (1) group home may
be established, for a Municipality with of population of more than one thousand
(1,000) and less than ten thousand (10,000) residents, one (1) group home may
be established for every two thousand (2,000) residents, for a Municipality
with a population of at least ten thousand (10,000) residents but less than
fifty thousand (50,000) residents, one (1) group home may be established for
every three thousand (3,000) residents. (Ref. 18-1746, 18-1747 RS Neb.)(Ord.
No. 360, 10/13/80)
ARTICLE 4.5: BUSINESS RETENTION
§ 11-4.5.1 BUSINESS RETENTION; SMALL BOX/VARIETY STORES; COMPETITION AND
REGULATION.
   (A)   Administration; intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to
maintain and support the health and welfare of the citizens of Plainview by:
      (1)   Promoting a community-based approach to the support and
preservation of existing businesses that:
         (a)   Provide a business environment that devotes in excess of sixty
percent (60%) of square footage to food products, including access to a full
range of foods, fresh produce, fresh meats and dairy products; and/or
         (b)   Provide full service prescription pharmacy services, as well as
over-the- counter drug products, support for drug programs at local medical and
care facilities, and all related products normally stocked in a full-service
prescription pharmacy;
      (2)   Providing a community business structure that allows the business
mentioned above to survive and thrive; and
      (3)   Avoiding over concentration of small box discount or variety
stores, as defined below, that would threaten the financial viability and/or
existence of such food and pharmacy providers and businesses within the City of
Plainview.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms shall have the meaning provided
herein. Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning provided in the City of
Plainview Zoning Ordinance and/or City Subdivision Regulations.
      CONVENIENCE RETAIL STORE. Retail store that provides fuel and assorted or
specialty goods for sale, including food and beverages for off-premise
consumption and personal health items. Small box discount stores are not
included.
      DETRIMENTAL IMPACT. In considering detrimental impact, the City Council
shall consider the following:
         (a)   The distance between Plainview and the nearest grocery stores;
         (b)   The distance between Plainview and the nearest full-service
prescription pharmacies;
         (c)   The average age of Plainview residents;
         (d)   Whether the applicant small box discount store will devote floor
space to fresh vegetables and fruit, fresh meats and dairy products; and
         (e)   The population of adults in Plainview without driver's licenses.
      FULL-SERVICE PRESCRIPTION PHARMACY. Business providing prescription
medications and pharmaceutical products in addition to over-the-counter medical
products, snacks, cleaning products, health and beauty products and sundries. A
FULL-SERVICE PRESCRIPTION PHARMACY employs a licensed pharmacist.
      GROCERY STORE. Retail store that provides assorted goods for sale,
including, but not limited to, food, beverages and personal health items. A
minimum of twenty-five percent (25%) of sales floor area or more than three
thousand (3,000) square feet of sales floor are dedicated to the sale of fresh
or prepackaged meats, fruits, vegetables ,and dairy, whichever is greater.
      SMALL BOX DISCOUNT STORE. A retail store with a floor area ranging from
two thousand to fifteen thousand (2,000 to 15,000) square feet that offers for
sale an assortment of physical goods, products or merchandise directly to the
consumer, including food or beverages for off-premise consumption, household
products, personal grooming and health products and other consumer goods, with
the majority of items being offered for sale at lower than the typical market
price. SMALL BOX DISCOUNT STORES do not include grocery stores; convenience
retail stores; full-service prescription pharmacy; or stores which sell
gasoline or diesel fuel; primarily sell specialty food items (e.g., meat,
seafood, cheese, or oils and vinegars); or dedicate at least fifteen percent
(15%) of floor area or shelf space to fresh fruits and vegetables.
   (C)   Regulations of small box discount stores. To avoid over-concentration,
to be a permitted use within an otherwise acceptable zoning district, a new
small box discount store within the City of Plainview Zoning Jurisdiction shall
not be closer than one (1) mile (5,280 feet) from another existing small box
discount store. If located under five thousand two hundred eighty (5,280) feet
from another such store, this use is permitted by special use permit (SUP)
only. In addition to the criteria for a SUP set forth in the Zoning Code, when
reviewing a request for SUP for a discount store use, the Planning Commission
and City Council shall consider:
      (1)   Whether the proposed small box discount store may have a
detrimental impact on the development of grocery stores and other businesses
that sell fresh food items in the area to be served by the proposed use.
      (2)   Whether the proposed use may have a detrimental impact on the
development or survival of full-service prescription pharmacies.
(Ord. 964, 3/3/21)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 972, 1/11/22; 978, 7/12/22)
ARTICLE 5: PENAL PROVISION
§ 11-501 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
For penalty provisions, see section
12-101 of Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 12: PENAL PROVISIONS
Article
   
1.   PENALTY AND NUISANCE ABATEMENT
ARTICLE 1: PENALTY AND NUISANCE ABATEMENT
§ 12-101 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this Municipal Code, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours
of failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2) (a) Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Municipal Code, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b) Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 744, 7/11/00)
