CITY OF PONCA, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 477, passed 5-30-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Empowerment of other law enforcement personnel
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Changes to this code of ordinances
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Ponca
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited. It may be referred to as “the code,”
“this code” or “this code of ordinances” in this code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual, sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Ponca, Nebraska,
a municipal corporation.
      CITY COUNCIL or LOCAL GOVERNING BODY. The Mayor and City Council of the
City of Ponca, Nebraska.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and the adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Dixon, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Shall include persons, artificial persons such as corporations,
co-partnerships, associations and all aggregate organizations of whatever
character.
(Prior Code, § 0-009)
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural. All words used herein implying the
masculine gender may apply to and include the feminine or neuter gender; and
all words importing the plural may be applied to and mean a single person, firm
or thing, or vice versa; and all words importing the singular number may be
applied to and mean plural number.
(Prior Code, § 0-009)
   (D)   Tenses. The use of a verb in the present tense shall include the
future, if applicable.
   (E)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 EMPOWERMENT OF OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The term CITY POLICE shall apply in all instances to all other law
enforcement officials, including state patrol officers and the County Sheriff
and deputies.
   (B)   Whenever this code empowers the city police to take any action, such
empowerment shall extend to and apply equally to any state patrol officers or
the County Sheriff or deputies.
(Prior Code, § 0-008)
§ 10.11 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected
and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.13 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.18 CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Election wards
   
11.03   City Council ward map
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city, in the office of the City Clerk, a
common seal of the corporation having engraved thereon the words “City of
Ponca, Nebraska, Seal.”
   (B)   The City Clerk shall affix an impression of said seal on all papers or
documents executed by him or her in his or her official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 1-301)
§ 11.02 ELECTION WARDS.
   The city shall be divided into two election wards as follows.
   (A)   First Ward (Ward I). The First Ward shall include all that part of the
city lying southerly of a line commencing at the intersection of the centerline
of North Ponca Street and the northerly limits; thence southerly along the
centerline of North Ponca Street to West First Street; thence east-
southeasterly along the centerline of West First Street to North Washington
Street; thence north-northeasterly along the centerline of North Washington
Street to West Bluff Street; thence east-southeasterly along the centerline of
West Bluff Street to North Iowa Street; thence south-southwesterly along the
centerline of North Iowa Street to West Second Street; thence east-
southeasterly along the centerline of West Second Street; thence continuing on
East Second Street after North Union Street (also State Spur 26E) to North East
Street; thence south-southwesterly along the centerline of North East Street to
East Third Street; thence east-southeasterly along the centerline of East Third
Street to the easterly limits of the city.
   (B)   Second Ward (Ward II). The Second Ward shall include all that part of
the city lying northerly of a line commencing at the intersection of the
centerline of North Ponca Street and the northerly limits; thence southerly
along the centerline of North Ponca Street to West First Street; thence east-
southeasterly along the centerline of West First Street to North Washington
Street; thence north-northeasterly along the centerline of North Washington
Street to West Bluff Street; thence along the centerline of West Bluff Street
to North Iowa Street; thence south-southwesterly along the east-southeasterly
centerline of North Iowa Street to West Second Street; thence east-
southeasterly along the centerline of West Second Street; thence continuing on
East Second Street after North Union Street (also State Spur 26E) to North East
Street; thence south-southwesterly along the centerline of North East Street to
East Third Street; thence east-southeasterly along the centerline of East Third
Street to the easterly limits of the city.
(Ord. 453, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 11.03 CITY COUNCIL WARD MAP.
 
(Ord. 453, passed 12-20-2021)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   CITY POLICIES, PLANS AND AGREEMENTS
      
37.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Corporate existence
   
30.02   Succession of control
Mayor
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.16   Powers and duties
   
30.17   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.30   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.31   Powers
   
30.32   President; Acting President
   
30.33   Standing committees
   
30.34   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.35   Attendance of members at meetings
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.50   Grant of power
   
30.51   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.52   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.53   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.54   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.55   Publication or posting
   
30.56   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.57   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.58   Amendments and revisions
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The city, having a population of more than 800 but less than 5,000, is
hereby declared to be a city of the second class and shall be governed in all
respects by the laws regulating cities of the second class.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 30.02 SUCCESSION OF CONTROL.
   In order to designate the succession of control of the city and to declare
and control a disaster or emergency when the Mayor is not present or is unable
to act as the principal executive officer of the city, then the following shall
be the procedure used to determine who is next in line to fulfill those duties
and responsibilities.
   (A)   If the Mayor is not present or is incapable of performing his or her
duties in order to declare a disaster or emergency and/or act as principal
executive officer in a disaster or emergency situation, then the President of
the City Council shall perform those functions and duties.
   (B)   Should the President of the Council not be present or be unable to
perform those functions and duties, then the next most senior elected official
shall perform those duties and functions.
   (C)   The line of succession for the remaining elected officials shall
follow by seniority from the date originally elected. If more than one Council
member has the same date of seniority, then the most senior in age shall assume
control.
(Prior Code, § 1-107)
MAYOR
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
§ 30.16 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City
Council.
         (b)   The Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a majority
vote of the City Council or a majority vote of all the elected members of the
City Council if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to City Council members being
equally divided; or
            2.   A majority of City Council members or a majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy or abstention of
one or more City Council members.
         (c)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city and shall take care that the ordinances of the
city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or claim, he or she
shall sign it and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the ordinance,
order, bylaw, resolution, contract or any item or items of appropriation or
claim, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating that the measure
is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at which the measure
passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If the Mayor issues the
veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City Clerk of the veto in
writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in writing of the Mayor’s
veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any
contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor, may be passed over
his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council. If the
Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim, but
fails to veto the measure within the time required by this section, the measure
shall become effective without his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any
item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill and approve the
remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed by the Council
over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, police, health, security, ornament,
comfort and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
   (J)   The Mayor shall require all city officials and employees to give him
or her a receipt for any and all articles belonging to the city now in their
charge and all that may hereafter come under their charge. All outgoing city
officers and employees shall deliver over to the Mayor or account to him or her
for all articles used by them in the duties of their office whenever their term
of office or employment with the city ceases.
(Prior Code, § 1-104)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.17 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such disability is removed, or
in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 to 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.30 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The elected officials of the city shall consist of a Mayor and six
Council members, who shall be elected three from each of the two wards of the
city. Said Council members shall be citizens of the United States, residents of
the city and registered voters; provided, a Council member’s term shall expire
and the office become vacant upon removal or change of residence from the city.
   (B)   (1)   The term of office of each member of the City Council is four
years. All general and special elections from and after the effective date of
the ordinance from which this provision originates shall be held in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election and shall be governed by the
provisions of the state’s Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
      (2)   Not later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the City Council
shall certify to the Election Commissioner/County Clerk, on forms provided by
the Secretary of State, the name of the city, the number of officers to be
elected, the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by the
election and the length of the remaining term and the number of votes to be
cast by a registered voter for each office.
(Prior Code, § 1-103) (Ord. 324, passed 1-27-2005; Ord. 404, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 30.31 POWERS.
   The Council shall have all powers granted under the laws of the state,
including, but not limited to, the following: the power to pass ordinances to
prevent and remove nuisances; to prevent, restrain and suppress gambling and
disorderly houses; to license and regulate amusements; to establish and provide
for police protection; to prevent the spread of contagious diseases; to
regulate business; to erect, repair, construct and regulate public ways and
property; to maintain good government, public welfare and domestic tranquility;
and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants or other
persons for violation thereof not exceeding the amount permitted by state law
for each offense, recoverable with costs, together with enforcement by
injunction where necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1-109)
§ 30.32 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled the Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council, and all
acts of the President or Acting President while so acting shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.33 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year unless reappointed.
§ 30.34 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.17 of this chapter, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by
the Mayor and Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a
vacancy, except a vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be
in writing and presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and
shall appear as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at
once give public notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city, or by posting in three public
places in the city, the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 to 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.35 ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS AT MEETINGS.
   In the event that an elected official of the city shall be absent for five
consecutive meetings, the City Council, at its next regular meeting, shall hold
a hearing to determine whether such absences shall be excused. Notice of such
in writing shall be delivered to the absent member at least ten days prior to
such hearing, and he or she shall be given the opportunity to present evidence
and testimony to support a determination that such absences should be excused.
After such hearing, the City Council shall vote to either excuse such absences
or to determine that such absences are unexcused and declare the seat vacant.
In the event the seat is determined vacant, the vacancy shall be filled
pursuant to §
30.34 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-308) (Ord. 295, passed 11-21-2002)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.50 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government and welfare of the city and its
trade and commerce and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or
penalties for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense,
recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.51 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.52 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions
shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.51 of this chapter for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by
the resolution or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the City Council.
   (B)   A majority vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion.
The vote on any resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.53 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Ponca, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.54 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the
appropriation or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption
the concurrence of a majority of all elected members of the City Council.
         (b)   The Mayor may vote on any such matter if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council
cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy or abstention of one or more City
Council members.
         (c)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed a member of
the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
title on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement.
         (b)   Such requirement shall not be suspended:
            1.   For any ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the
redrawing of boundaries for City Council election districts or wards; or
            2.   As otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and
every resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the
yeas and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw,
ordinance or any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the
whole number of members elected to the City Council shall be required.
      (2)   All appointments of the officers by the City Council shall be made
viva voce and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the
names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an
appointment shall be recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce
vote shall be satisfied by a city which utilizes an electronic voting device
which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the City Council to be readily
seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.55 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In a newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.56 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.57 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.55 of this chapter and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government
of the city which has been adopted by the City Council without submission to
the voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.58 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the foregoing
sections of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   City Clerk
   
31.05   City Treasurer
   
31.06   City Attorney
   
31.07   Police Chief
   
31.08   Police officers
   
31.09   Fire Chief
   
31.10   City Utilities Superintendent
   
31.11   City Street Superintendent
   
31.12   City Building Inspector
   
31.13   City Administrator
   
31.14   City Engineer; Special Engineer
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor, at the first regular meeting of the City Council held after
taking office in December or as soon afterward as he or she can reasonably do
so, may appoint, with the advice and consent of the Council, a City Clerk, City
Treasurer, City Engineer, City Attorney, City Police Chief, City Fire Chief,
Utilities Superintendent, Street Superintendent, Water Commissioner and
Building Inspector. The Mayor shall also appoint whatever other officials of
the city which he or she deems necessary, which officers shall serve at the
pleasure of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-201)
   (B)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police officers,
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be established by the
City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that either:
      (1)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed; or
      (2)   The officers hold office for one year, unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (C)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
(Ord. 286, passed 12-12-2001)
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.25 and
33.26 of this code. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond
shall qualify by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.26 of this code.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and
merge any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of
duties of any such offices or employments, except for Mayor and Council member,
with any other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more
of such offices or employments, or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, may be held by the same officer or employee at the same
time.
      (2)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
      (3)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments, or offices and employments, shall
not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, volunteer firefighters and
ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)
   (B)   Offices of Clerk and Treasurer. The offices of City Clerk and City
Treasurer may be performed by the City Clerk. The salary of the combined office
shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so merged and
combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-206)
§ 31.04 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of §
31.05(A)(3) of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the General Fund
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or to any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 to 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers or other documents of
the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom, except
by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same, but
only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including a
record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall also
deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in
part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
§ 31.05 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council under oath showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201 to 77-
2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register and carry the amounts forward, and
at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 to 84-712.09.
   (E)   (1)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city
separate and distinct from his or her own money.
      (2)   He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants and other
evidences of debt against the city whenever paid by him or her by writing or
stamping on the face thereof “Paid by the City Treasurer,” with the date of
payment written or stamped thereon.
      (3)   He or she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special
assessments to the several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a
monthly report as to the collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
Cross-reference:
   Police Department provisions, see §§
32.45 through
32.49
§ 31.08 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) below. A
police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council
such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
City Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall
include a procedure for such removal, demotion or suspension with or without
pay of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written
accusation of the Police Chief, the Mayor or any citizen or taxpayer. The City
Council shall establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written
accusation, in accordance with Neb. RS 17-107.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section, in cases
of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
The members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council.
The Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the public
or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a physically
present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(Neb. RS 81-1438)
Cross-reference:
   Police Department provisions, see §§
32.45 to 32.49
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve forces, see Neb. RS 81-1439 to
81-1446
§ 31.09 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department provisions, see §§
32.20 to 32.32
§ 31.10 CITY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the power to appoint a Utilities
Superintendent supervising the city water system, sewer system and gas
distribution system. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general
control and supervisory authority over all the city utilities. He or she shall
collect all money received by the city on account of said system of water,
sewer and gas works and shall faithfully account for and pay over to the City
Treasurer all of such monies collected in the name of the city. He or she shall
make a detailed report to the Council at least once every six months of the
condition of said water, sewer and gas system, all mains, pipes, hydrants,
reservoirs and machinery and such improvements, repairs and extensions thereof
as he or she may think proper. No money shall be expended for improvements,
repairs or extension for said water, sewer and gas distribution systems except
upon the recommendation of the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The duties of the Utilities Superintendent will be those set forth
herein and as set forth specifically in the job description separately adopted
by the Mayor and City Council. He or she may be removed for good cause by a
two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
§ 31.11 CITY STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Street Superintendent shall, subject to the order of the
Mayor and Council, have general charge, direction and control of all works on
the streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
      (2)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and
drains in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
      (3)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council, make a
detailed report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, alleys and bridges of the city and shall direct its attention to such
improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (B)   (1)   The duties of the Street Superintendent will be those set forth
herein and as set forth specifically in the job description separately adopted
by the Mayor and City Council.
      (2)   It shall be the special duty of the Street Superintendent to
supervise and direct the snow and tree removal work in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-210)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.12 CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the authority to appoint a City Building
Inspector. Such Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections
in any area of the city to determine whether all buildings and structures are
in compliance with the city ordinances. In the event that no Building Inspector
is specifically appointed, the Utilities Superintendent shall be the ex officio
Building Inspector with all of the rights, duties and responsibilities of the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   He or she shall investigate all complaints whether they are verbal,
written or in the form of a petition alleging and charging that a violation of
the city ordinances exists and that a building or structure is unfit or unsafe
for human habitation. The Building Inspector is authorized, upon properly
identifying himself or herself, to enter, inspect, survey and investigate such
structure between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an
emergency exists or if requested by the owner or the occupant thereof.
   (C)   He or she shall keep records of all complaints received, inspection
reports, orders and complaints issued. The records shall be available for
public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report, including
statistics based on the records kept.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall have no financial interest in the
furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration
or maintenance of a building, except where he or she is the owner of a
building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for any said dealer or as an
agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real estate.
   (E)   The Building Inspector shall report to the City Council as often as it
may deem necessary and shall have such other duties and issue such permits as
it may direct. The Building Inspector may be removed by the City Council at any
time for good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, § 1-211)
§ 31.13 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Generally. The City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor and
with the consent of a majority of the City Council. Such person shall be the
administrative head of the city government, under the direction and control of
the Mayor and City Council, and shall be responsible to the Mayor and City
Council for the efficient conduct of his or her office. The office of City
Administrator may not be held by the Mayor. The City Administrator may be
removed at any time by the Mayor with the approval of a majority of the City
Council.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the office of the City Administrator is to
provide centralization of the administrative responsibilities of the city. He
or she is to be the administrative head of the city government under the
direction and control of the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   Duties. The duties of the City Administrator shall be generally to
carry out the directions and recommendations of the Mayor and City Council in
coordinating the administrative functions and operations of the various
departments. The specific duties of the City Administrator shall be enumerated
in a resolution passed by the Mayor and City Council and which, from time to
time, may be amended. The City Administrator shall keep a copy of the latest
list of duties on file in his or her office at all times, copies of which may
be obtained upon request by the Mayor and Council members or any persons
designated by them to receive the same.
   (D)   Salary. The salary of the City Administrator shall be fixed by
resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Bond. The City Administrator shall furnish a corporate surety bond, to
be approved by the City Council. The sum of said bond may be determined by the
City Council and shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of the City Administrator as imposed by the Mayor and City Council. Any
fee for said bond shall be paid by the city.
   (F)   Line of authority. The City Administrator shall be subordinate to the
Mayor and City Council of the city. Otherwise, the City Administrator shall
have authority over all city personnel, except members of the police
department, the City Attorney and the City Physician.
(Prior Code, § 1-212)
§ 31.14 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public
heating systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and
the erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as
the City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the foregoing
sections of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE
Section
Boards, Commissions and Agencies
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.06   Board of Public Works
   
32.07   Tree Board
   
32.08   Community Development Agency
Fire Department
   
32.20   Operation and funding
   
32.21   Offices of Chief, Assistant Chief and Captains created; duties
   
32.22   Fire Chief; powers and duties
   
32.23   Membership
   
32.24   Records
   
32.25   Fires
   
32.26   Distant fires
   
32.27   Preservation of property
   
32.28   Inspections
   
32.29   Notice of violation; failure to obey
   
32.30   Mandatory assistance
   
32.31   Power of arrest
   
32.32   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
32.45   Duties
   
32.46   Reserve officer bond
   
32.47   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.48   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
   
32.49   Appeal procedure for disciplined or discharged officers
 
   
32.99   Penalty
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AGENCIES
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219, and
except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202, the
Library Board shall have five appointed members who shall be residents of the
city and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library
Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the
number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members
shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies
by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
president and secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the president or a majority of
the members of the Board.
Cross-reference:
   Library provisions, see Ch. 90
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Members; term of office.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members who
shall represent, as far as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Members shall
be residents of the city, provided, however, two members may be residents of
the area designated pursuant to Neb. RS 17-1001 over which the city exercises
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. When there is a sufficient number of
residents in such area over which the city exercises such extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction, one member of the Commission shall be a resident of such
area. If it is determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of
residents reside in such area and no such resident is a member of the
Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by
the appointment of such an individual. For the purpose of this section, a
SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF RESIDENTS shall mean 500 residents.
      (2)   The term of each member of the Commission shall be three years.
Members shall be eligible for reappointment. All members shall hold office
until their successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing
before the City Council, be removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority
vote of the members of the City Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by appointment by the Mayor.
   (B)   Compensation of members. All members of the City Planning Commission
shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the
City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-702)
   (C)   Officers; meetings; rules.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall organize by electing from its
membership a Chairperson and such other offices as it may determine. The term
of the Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she is eligible for reelection.
Any member of the Planning Commission may hold any other municipal office
except Mayor, member of the City Council, member of any community redevelopment
authority or limited community redevelopment authority created pursuant to Neb.
RS 18-2102.01 or a member of any citizen advisory review committee created
pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2715.
      (2)   A majority of members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of transacting business. The Commission shall hold at least one
regular meeting in each calendar quarter, provided, however, the City Council
may require the Commission to meet more frequently, and the Chairperson of the
Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending
before the Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the
Chairperson may cancel a quarterly meeting, but not more than three quarterly
meetings may be cancelled per calendar year.
      (3)   The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public record.
   (D)   Funding. The Planning Commission shall be funded by the City Council
from time to time out of the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-704)
   (E)   Plans for physical development; recommendations to City Council.
      (1)   It shall be the function and duty of the Commission to make and
adopt plans for the physical development of the city, including any areas
outside of its boundaries but within its statutory authority which, in the
Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the city. All actions
by the Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the City
Council. The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the City Council may from time to time
designate.
(Prior Code, § 1-705)
      (2)   A written recommendation from the Planning Commission relating to a
comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, zoning or any other
matter shall be received by the City Council within 60 days after the matter
has been submitted to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 340, passed 8-29-2005; Ord. 448, passed 8-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 19-926 and 19-927
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B) below, the Council
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken
by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (F)
below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the zoning board of adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the zoning board of adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served, by request or
otherwise, only by the county zoning board of adjustment of the county in which
the greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such county
zoning board of adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its
extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as
more than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already
include such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the
Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except for
the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application, on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901, 19-903
to 19-904.01 and division (C) above and this division (F) would result in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on
any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such regulation or to
effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board
or bureau of the city, may present to the District Court a petition duly
verified setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board. Upon the filing of such petition, a summons shall be issued and be
served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition.
Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the
summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of
Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition, which shall admit or deny the
substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the
Board with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition.
The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At
the expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear
and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon
according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the Court
that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may
take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and
report the same to the Court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions
of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the
determination of the Court shall be made. The Court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the District Court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the Court may, on application, on notice to the Board and on due
cause shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the
District Court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the
state regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: the Mayor,
who shall be Chairperson, the President of the City Council and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a
Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
Quarantine Officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them and
may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board shall have the power to and shall make all needful rules
and regulations relating to matters of sanitation of the city, including the
removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys, vacant
grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
waterclosets, cesspools, stables and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board shall also have
control of hospitals, dispensaries and places for treatment of the sick, and
matters relating to the same, under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve a one-year term of office, unless
reappointed, and shall reorganize at the first meeting in June of each year.
(Prior Code, § 1-801)
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
§ 32.05 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the creation of a
Board of Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners
pursuant to Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three
members, who shall be residents of the city, and shall have charge of all parks
and recreational facilities belonging to the city, and shall have the power to
establish rules for the management, care and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve as a
member of the Board while serving a term of office as Mayor or member of the
City Council. The members of the Board shall serve terms of office of the
length specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board shall organize at its meeting after appointments are
regularly considered by the City Council and select members to serve as the
Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board shall hold more than one
Board position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The Board
shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund.
   (F)   All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from time to time,
designate.
§ 32.06 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Whenever the city has or is about to establish or acquire any system
of waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant or distribution system and the City Council has created a Board of Public
Works, the Board shall consist of not less than three nor more than six
members, residents of the city, to be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council. The members may be removed by the Mayor and a
majority of the members elected to the City Council at any time. The term of
the first members of the Board shall be one, two, three or four years in the
manner designated by the Mayor, as the case may be, after which the term of
each member shall be four years, and the terms of not more than two members
shall expire at any one time.
(Neb. RS 17-801)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall have the active direction and
supervision of any or all of the utility systems owned or operated by the city
as conferred on it by the City Council. The City Council shall approve the
budget of each proprietary function as provided in the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act. The Board shall have the power to operate any utility referred to
it and to exercise all powers conferred by law upon the city for the operation
and government of such utility to the same extent, in the same manner and under
the same restrictions as the City Council could do if no such Board of Public
Works existed, except that the Board of Public Works shall not make any
expenditure or contract any indebtedness, other than for ordinary running
expenses, exceeding the amount established by the City Council without first
obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board of Public Works shall
report to the City Council at regular intervals as it may require.
(Neb. RS 17-802)
   (C)   If so authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Council, the Board of
Public Works may cooperate and participate in a plan of insurance designed and
intended for the benefit of the employees of any public utility operated by the
city. For that purpose, the Board of Public Works may make contributions to pay
premiums or dues under such plan, authorize deductions from salaries of
employees and take such other steps as may be necessary to effectuate such plan
of insurance.
(Neb. RS 17-802.01)
   (D)   The members of the Board of Public Works shall organize as soon as
practicable after their appointment by electing a Chairperson and Secretary,
who shall serve until the first meeting in June next following; and thereafter,
the Board shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary at the first meeting in June
each year. In the absence of the regular officers, temporary officers to serve
in their places may be chosen by the members present at any meeting. They shall
establish regular times for meeting and may adopt such rules as may be
necessary or desirable for the conduct of their business. They shall keep a
record of their proceedings and, if there is a legal newspaper published in or
of general circulation in the city, shall publish therein the minutes of each
meeting within 30 days after it is held.
(Neb. RS 17-805)
   (E)   Each of the members of the Board of Public Works shall take an oath to
discharge faithfully the duties of the office before entering upon the
discharge thereof. Each of the members of the Board, before entering upon the
duties of the office, shall be required to give bond to the city with corporate
surety. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000 and shall be conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of member of the Board of Public Works;
and the surety on such bond shall be approved by the Mayor and Council and
shall be filed with the City Treasurer, provided that the premium on the bond
shall be paid out of any public utility fund designated by the Mayor and
Council.
(Neb. RS 17-806)
   (F)   No member of the Board of Public Works shall ever be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by them on
behalf of such city for more than $10,000 in one year.
(Neb. RS 17-807)
   (G)   If the Board determines that the best interests of the city and the
patrons of the utility will be better or more economically served, they may
employ the duly elected City Clerk as ex officio bookkeeper and collector for
the utility or utilities, and he or she may be paid a reasonable salary for the
extra services required of him or her in such position in addition to his or
her salary as City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-808)
   (H)   Rates or charges for service may be fixed or changed by resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-810)
§ 32.07 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Creation and establishment. There is hereby created and established a
City Tree Board for the city, which shall consist of six members who shall be
citizens and residents of this city, appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-901)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in all
areas owned by the city, including public parks having individual names, or any
area to which the public has free access as a park.
      STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or
ways with the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-902)
   (C)   Term of office. The terms of the six persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be two years, with staggered terms so that two members’ terms shall
expire every two years. Terms shall commence on July 1 of each year. In the
event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or her
successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
(Prior Code, § 1-903)
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 1-904)
   (E)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel, develop and/or update annually and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets
and in other public areas. Such plan shall be presented annually to the City
Council and, upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official
comprehensive City Tree Plan for the city. The Tree Board, when requested by
the Council, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend
upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
(Prior Code, § 1-905)
   (F)   Operation. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a minute book of its proceedings. A majority of
its members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 1-906)
§ 32.08 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Members. The membership of the Agency shall be five in number and may
be members of the City Council. All members shall serve without compensation,
but shall be entitled to be reimbursed for all necessary expenses incurred. The
Agency shall, at its first meeting and annually thereafter, elect one of its
members as Chairperson and another as Vice Chairperson. The Agency shall have
the power to employ legal counsel and a Director, who shall be ex officio
Secretary of the Agency, and such other officers and employees as may be
desired.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Agency shall have all powers, duties and
obligations as are defined and set forth in the Community Development Law,
being Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq. of the state, as amended. The Agency may validly
and effectively act on all matters requiring a resolution or other official
action by a majority vote of its members present at a duly called meeting
thereof, provided that a quorum of four members is present. The Agency shall
adopt such other bylaws for its government as it shall deem necessary which are
not inconsistent with this section or state law. No member or employee of the
Agency shall have any interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract for
property, materials or services to be required by such Agency.
(Prior Code, § 1-1102)
   (C)   Report. The Agency shall keep an accurate account of all of its
activities and of all receipts and disbursements and make a report annually or
as requested by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-1103)
   (D)   Funds. All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the
Agency from any source or realized by the Agency from tax receipts or special
funding or appropriated by the city shall be deposited with the City Treasurer
as ex officio Treasurer of the Agency. The City Treasurer shall not commingle
such money with any other money under his or her control. Funds shall be
disbursed by warrants drawn on such account when executed by the Chairperson
and City Treasurer. All books and records shall be open to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1-1104)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city operates the City Fire Department through the Fire Chief. The
City Council, for the purpose of defraying the costs of the management,
maintenance and improvement of the Fire Department, shall each year levy a tax
not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the city that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Fire
Department Fund. The fund shall at all times be in the possession of the City
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
   (B)   The city shall have power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.21 OFFICES OF CHIEF, ASSISTANT CHIEF AND CAPTAINS CREATED; DUTIES.
   There are hereby created the offices of Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief and
two Captains of the Fire Department. Said officers shall be elected by the
active members of said Fire Department and approved by the Mayor and City
Council of said city and shall hold their offices until their successors are
elected and approved by the Mayor and City Council. Such officers may be
removed from office by the Mayor and City Council for misconduct, inefficiency
or dereliction of duty, and when any vacancy occurs, by removal or otherwise,
the members of said Fire Department shall immediately elect a successor,
subject to the approval of the City Council. In the event of the failure of
said Fire Department to elect a Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief or Captains,
or in case of a vacancy in any of said offices, for a period of five days after
such vacancy occurs, the City Council shall fill such vacancy by the
appointment of some member of the Fire Department to said office.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 32.22 FIRE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have full control of the actions of the members
of the Fire Department during the time said Department is on duty at a fire or
during the period of fire drills, and the Fire Chief shall have full charge and
control of all of the equipment of said Fire Department and of the movement
thereof. The Chief shall have and is hereby invested with the authority of a
police officer in the performance of his or her duty as such Fire Chief. It
shall be his or her duty to preserve and maintain order at all times during a
fire, and he or she shall have the power and authority to call to his or her
aid, either for the purpose of maintaining order or for the performance of any
other act in connection with the fire, any and all bystanders whom he or she
may select at the time; and it shall be the duty of all persons who are called
upon by the Fire Chief for service at a fire to promptly obey all orders issued
by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his
or her duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hoses,
ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and
directive of the City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair,
improvement or maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and
approve of the same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the
City Council at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the City Council of the general condition and the proposed additions
or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.23 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in the case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company, to the value
of $500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the state’s Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and, upon confirmation,
shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire Department after
confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council, and thereafter, shall not be considered employees of the city.
Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the course and scope of their employment when performing
activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if directed to
do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For the purpose of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness in
connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer firefighters
and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall not be deemed
employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the city code or the laws of the
state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 32.24 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the City Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 32.25 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.26 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
§ 32.27 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Fire Department shall have the power during the time of
a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever it shall
become necessary to do so for the preservation of such property from fire, to
prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property. The said
officials may direct the removal of any building, erection or fence for the
purpose of checking the progress of any fire, and the official in charge of the
firefighting effort shall have the power to blow up, or cause to be blown up,
with powder or otherwise, any building or erection during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-110)
§ 32.28 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, as often as
directed by the Mayor or City Council, or as often as the Chief shall deem it
necessary, to enter any house, building or premises within said city for the
purpose of examining the fire flues, hearths, chimneys, stoves, stove pipes,
ovens, boilers and other apparatuses likely to cause fire, and also places
where any coal, oils, gasoline, tar, hay, straw, shavings or any other
combustible material may be lodged or stored. The Chief shall give such
directions in regard to the several foregoing matters as he or she shall deem
expedient to guard against fire or accident, either for the removal, alteration
or better care and management thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief, where a Fire Department is established, or the
Mayor, where no Fire Department exists, at all reasonable hours may enter into
all buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the
purposes of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 to 81-531, the
state’s Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the Petroleum Products and
Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act and any other statutory duties
imposed upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by
the City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department
officers, members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not
less than two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares,
except the interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The
inspection shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids,
combustibles and explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and
adequacy of exits, in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls,
theaters, factories, hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of
persons congregate from time to time for any purpose, whether publicly or
privately owned; the design, construction, location, installation and operation
of equipment for storing, handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases,
specifying the odorization of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals,
prozylin plastics, nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that
may now or hereafter exist.
§ 32.29 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; FAILURE TO OBEY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief shall give the directions mentioned in §
32.28(A) of this chapter to the owner or occupant of any premises, either
verbally or by written notice, it shall be the duty of said owner or occupant
to cause such removal or alteration thereof within 24 hours at the owner’s or
occupant’s expense. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to cause such
removal or alteration within the time specified, upon conviction, he or she
shall be fined in a sum not exceeding that permitted by state law for violation
of a municipal ordinance and shall pay the costs of prosecution. His or her
failure to comply with such directive for each 24 hours thereafter shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-106)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of
the premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or
by delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her agent,
appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days nor
more than ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with the
City Clerk. The City Council shall then affirm, modify or rescind the order as
safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final, subject
only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The
order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable
safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable
hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any
decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant
or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.30 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Fire Department may command the assistance and services
of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the same or in the
removal and protection of property. In the event that the said spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.31 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of city police officers to command all persons to assist them in the
performance of their duties.
§ 32.32 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the
cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary.
   (B)   The officer making the investigation of fires occurring in the city
shall forthwith notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of the
occurrence of the fire, furnish him or her written statement of all the facts
relating to the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he
or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.45 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole time
to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the preservation of peace,
order, safety, and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys,
business places, and residences of the city. The Department shall execute, or
cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested
to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The
Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers shall become
thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the same are
strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons
for violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city police officer
making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other
person, whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the proper
judicial official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such
prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored to
them upon their release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall file
such reports as may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the
state. No law enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment
having a liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect, or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
32.99
Cross-reference:
   Refusing to aid a police officer, see §
132.03
§ 32.46 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council has
been filed. These bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter
11, Article 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444)
§ 32.47 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail or other place of confinement to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within the territorial limits
of the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases.
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction.
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance.
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, then law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465; 28-1466; 28-1472; 37-
1254.01; 37-1254.02; 60-4,163; 60-4,164; 60-6,196; 60-6,197; 60-6,211.01; or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465; 28-1466; 28-1472; 37-
1254.01; 37-1254.02; 60-4,163; 60-4,164; 60-6,196; 60-6,197; 60-6,211.01; or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division (F).
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
§ 32.48 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal or discipline of any police officer, including the Chief
of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for making application for
an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which such application
shall be made and provisions on the manner in which the appeals hearing shall
be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the Council shall vote to uphold, reverse or modify
the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the Council to act within 30
days or the failure of a majority of the elected Council members to vote to
reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be construed as a
vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision of the Council
shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence
presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary action was
necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police
Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division (A), in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the Council,
the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the rules and
regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (1)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (2)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The Council shall set the
matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after the filing of
the written demand for a hearing. The Council shall give the police officer
written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   Be represented by counsel.
§ 32.49 APPEAL PROCEDURE FOR DISCIPLINED OR DISCHARGED OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any police officer or the City Police Chief may be disciplined or
immediately discharged from duty for gross misconduct, neglect of duty or
disobedience of lawful orders of the President of the City Council or the City
Council as a whole.
(Prior Code, § 1-603)
   (B)   In the event of discharge for any of the causes set forth in division
(A) above, the police officer or City Police Chief shall have the right to
appeal his or her discharge or disciplinary action to the City Council. Such
appeal shall be made within 30 days of his or her discharge or disciplinary
action by filing a written application for a hearing before the Council. Such
written application shall be made to the City Clerk, and if such application is
made, the Clerk shall immediately notify the Mayor of the receipt of such
application. Upon notice of the filing of such application, the Mayor shall
call a special meeting of the City Council within 20 days of receipt of the
written application to consider such application. Both the police officer and
the individuals causing such disciplinary action or discharge shall have the
right at the hearing to be heard and to present evidence to the City Council
for its consideration. Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the
meeting at which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold,
reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the City
Council to act within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected Board
members to vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall
be construed as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The
decision of the City Council shall be based upon its determination that, under
the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or
disciplinary action was necessary for the proper management and the effective
operation of the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the
statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-604)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the foregoing
sections of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.09   Public participation
   
33.10   City Council; order of business
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.13   Minutes
   
33.14   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Bonds; requirements
   
33.26   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
33.55   Publication of notices
 
   
33.99   Penalty
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Nebraska Constitution,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   (1)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Nebraska Constitution, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
      (2)   (a)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized
notice of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (A)(2)(b)
below. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to
the public.
         (b)   The notice shall be published by:
            1.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s website; or
            2.   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
the city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
         (c)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (A)(2)(b)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
         (d)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the
notice in its minutes.
         (e)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time
of the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
   (B)   (1)   Formal actions taken at any public meeting not in conformity
with the provisions of this section shall be deemed to be void.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any preliminary
interview or recruitment of prospective officials or employees.
(Prior Code, § 1-304)
Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management
Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held at the Council
chambers or other location set by the Council by resolution. Regular meetings
shall be held on the last Thursday of each month at the hour of 7:30 p.m.
      (2)   In the absence of the Mayor, the Council shall have the power to
appoint a Mayor Pro Tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and perform
the same duties as the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 1-305)
   (B)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the Mayor Pro Tempore.
   (C)   A majority of all the members elected to the Council shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may adjourn
from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. When the City
Council consists of four members, as established by ordinance or home rule
charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City Council for the purpose
of establishing a quorum when the Mayor’s presence is necessary to establish
the quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
any business.
(Neb. RS 17-105)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Council members shall have the power to
call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Council in writing, and the call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (E)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunications equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 of this chapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by not later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the
affirmative vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is
clearly necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the
prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that
individual has not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the
reason necessitating the closed session shall be identified in the motion to
close.
         (b)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to,
such reasons as:
            1.   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
            2.   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
            3.   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
            4.   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary
to prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purpose of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order or ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(b)1.
above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.08 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose
of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
33.07 of this chapter, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or
recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera,
video equipment or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in
writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 33.10 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public.
   (B)   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting,
the members of the City Council, the City Clerk, the Mayor and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the City
Hall, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Consideration of petitions and other communications;
      (4)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business of the preceding meeting;
      (6)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions, first reading;
      (7)   Second reading of ordinances;
      (8)   Third reading of ordinances;
      (9)   Final passage of ordinances;
      (10)   New business;
      (11)   Miscellaneous business;
      (12)   Appropriations and consideration of claims; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 1-306)
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
Cross-reference:
   City Council voting procedures, see §§
30.54 and
33.04
§ 33.12 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room.
   (B)   Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his or her
seat and address the presiding officer and, while speaking, shall confine his
or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first.
   (C)   All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing before being
acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk or any member of the Council. Every
member of the Council who is present when a question is voted upon shall cast
his or her vote unless excused by a majority of the members of the Council
present. No motion shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it
shall be stated by the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a
motion or resolution is entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the
Council making the motion or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote,
the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the
vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be
withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the consent of the member of
the Council seconding the resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the
consideration of an ordinance, different times or amounts are proposed, the
question shall be put on the largest sum, or the longest time. A question to
reconsider shall be in order when made by a member voting with the majority,
but the motion to reconsider must be made before the expiration of the third
regular meeting after the initial consideration of the question. When any
question is under debate, no motion shall be made, entertained or seconded
except the previous question, a motion to table and to adjourn. Each of those
motions shall be decided without debate.
   (D)   Any of the rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a
two-thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are
not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
Council shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.13 MINUTES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the
time, place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters
discussed.
      (2)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received
or disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public
inspection during normal business hours.
      (3)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall
be available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next
convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
   (B)   City Council. The minutes of any meeting of the City Council shall be
written and available for public inspection within ten working days of the
meeting or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earliest,
except that an additional ten days shall be allowed the City Clerk in writing
and making available for inspection such minutes in the event of the Clerk’s
serious illness or an emergency which prevents him or her from writing such
minutes and making them available to the general public within ten working days
as set forth herein.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 33.14 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Council
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Council members and officers are duly
qualified and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a
President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a
vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the
regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.25 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to the Nebraska Constitution, Article XVII, § 5.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties, who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show-cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a competent
and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds.
“I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such
compensation as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
      (2)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (3)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
      (4)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03 of this code, except that when there are officers elected to the Council,
or any other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of
one or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of
all members of such council, board or commission may be increased or diminished
at the beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall
have resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the
time for which he or she was elected if, during the same time, the emoluments
thereof were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
   (B)   In addition to the salaries herein provided, the various officers
shall be entitled to mileage and expenses, if and when claims therefor are
filed, audited and allowed. The Mayor and Council may, by resolution, authorize
clerical assistance in one or more offices when the same may be needed, and
claims therefor out of the proper funds may be presented, allowed, audited and
paid. All fees earned by an officer of this city in the performance of his or
her duties as such shall be considered the property of this city, and shall be
promptly paid over to the City Treasurer and by him or her credited to the
appropriate fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-110)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body
has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purpose of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   (a)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing
body shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. to (G)(1)(b)5. below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
         (b)   The information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from
the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
            1.   The names of the contracting parties;
            2.   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
            3.   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
            4.   The amount of the contract; and
            5.   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) to (H) above, the governing body may
prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) to (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other conflict of interest provisions, see Neb. RS 18-305 to 18-312 and 49-
1499.03 to 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 33.55 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   If the city is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, then the city shall publish
such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
in the county in which the city is located. If there is no legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in such county, then the city shall publish such
notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three public places in the city for the same period of time the city is
required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper.
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the
foregoing sections of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation
of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
   (B)   Any official who shall violate the provisions of §
33.02 of this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1-304)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Recall procedure
   
34.11   Exit polls; poll watchers
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the election commissioner or county clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 to 32-959. Any other special election under this
section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for publication or posting of
any required special notice of the submission of the issue, other than the
notice required to be given of statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the city shall be
responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled election.
Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in section Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the city
withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for the purposes
of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash, except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found, under assistance standards, to be insufficient for meeting the cost of
his or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources
does not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may
own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615 or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
34.07 of this chapter. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform
to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination
shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment
of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be
filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the Filing Clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the Filing Clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought and shall request that
the Filing Clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The Filing Clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official’s usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s last known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the Filing Clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The Filing Clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the Filing Clerk that the
petition papers are available. The Filing Clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The Filing Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance and the number of papers issued. The Filing
Clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the Filing Clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the Filing Clerk within 30 days after the Filing Clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
Filing Clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
Filing Clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the Filing Clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
Filing Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Filing
Clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s
last known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the Filing Clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall
election shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall order a recount of the votes
cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement with the
Filing Clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 34.11 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the foregoing
sections of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; policy for use by city
   
35.15   Credit cards; authority to accept
   
35.16   Making payments not listed in bill presentation
Annual Budget
   
35.30   Fiscal year
   
35.31   Budget procedures
   
35.32   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.33   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.34   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.35   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.36   Appropriation bill
   
35.37   General Fund
   
35.38   Transfer of funds
   
35.39   Budget revision
   
35.40   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.55   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.56   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.57   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.58   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.59   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.60   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.61   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
35.62   Motor vehicle fee
   
35.63   Sales and use tax
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
state’s County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are actually
received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be considered
PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city, or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city, and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit on an accrual basis of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial statements
or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the accountant is
unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the reasons why he or
she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 to 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets,
or any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids
as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the
amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of one million dollars;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of five million dollars; or
      (4)   One hundred twenty thousand dollars or less and the city electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of ten million
dollars.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05 of this chapter, and funds for the class or object out of which such
claim is payable have been included in the adopted budget statement or
transferred according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter, mailed to the claimant’s address within five days, if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement, and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have the authority to collect the special assessments
which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto,
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums or community houses in
a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals.
      (2)   The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish
the sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded
indebtedness, such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon
or principal thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage
of the resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for
establishment of the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   (1)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any
annual tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in
division (B) above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general
city election the proposition to provide the city with the specific city
improvement planned under this section. The resolution of submission shall,
among other things, set forth a clear description of the improvement planned,
the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy
over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide
such cost, and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to
be established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement
of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition.
      (2)   If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment
of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax
shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be
established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall
immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the
manner prescribed in this division, the City Council and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.11 of this chapter. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are
made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to
the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by
the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds,
when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of
one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Treasurer for the city shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit for safekeeping, in banks or institutions of approved and responsible
standing, all money collected, received or held by him or her as Treasurer.
Such deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the city for the receiving and holding thereof. A bond or pledged securities
shall be required from all banks or financial institutions in which municipal
funds are deposited in any amount exceeding that amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
(Ord. 309, passed 3-25-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 to 16-716 as of the time the deposit is made.
Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13
banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The
interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which
the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvement of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the
Council so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the
United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board, may
be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon
the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of
its current needs, or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its
bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay
the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits and in any securities in which the state’s Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the state’s Capital Expansion Act and the
state’s Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment
guidelines of the state’s Investment Council in effect on the date the
investment is made. The state’s Investment Officer shall, upon request, furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the state’s Investment
Council. Nothing in this division (E) shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 to 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 to 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 to 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act within or without this state for the purpose of
collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case
of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; POLICY FOR USE BY CITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The city credit cards are a purchase card system, benefitting
the city and the city’s authorized user of the credit card by allowing
purchases to be made from vendors for certain types of goods and/or services
that are not available through other procurement means or from other vendors.
   (B)   Policy. Usage of the city’s credit/purchase card (a/the card/s) is
allowed at the discretion of the City Clerk-Finance Director or City
Administrator, who will determine which current employees are granted city
purchasing authority and will establish appropriate limits for each purchase
and the total credit limit for each card account, which any increases in vendor
account spending limits are approved by the governing body. Use of a card is
restricted to the purchasing of those goods or services that cannot be procured
through normal procedures. The use of a card does not justify the payment of
any sales taxes for which the city is exempt and shall be given a copy of the
state tax exemption certificate/letter issued to the city. The employee using a
card is responsible for obtaining a timely credit for any sales tax charged. If
sales tax is charged and a credit is not obtained, the user is responsible for
the sales tax.
   (C)   Authorized employees. The City Clerk-Finance Director or City
Administrator may authorize the use of a city credit card, for intermittent use
or continuing use, for any city employee who consents to use of the credit
card. If city-issued credit cards are used for personal use or any stated
violation in division (E) below, the cost of such purchase(s) will be
considered an advance of future wages payable to the employee who made the
purchase and will be recovered in full from the employee’s wages until the wage
advance is fully repaid. No city employee who is authorized to use a city
credit card may allow use of the credit card by any designee, employee or
individual who has not received authorization for its use by the City Clerk-
Finance Director or City Administrator.
   (D)   Authorized purchase purposes. Authorized employees may use city-issued
credit cards only for official business purchases of materials and services and
for approved city travel-training expenses. The city’s credit card serves as a
means of payment only, and use of the card does not eliminate the need for
employee compliance with other regulations concerning purchasing, budgeting and
preauthorization for travel.
   (E)   Prohibited purchases.
      (1)   The city credit card may not be used to charge personal purchases;
food may not be purchased with the city credit card except food incident to
approved city travel-training and purchases pursuant to express permission from
the City Clerk-Finance Director or City Administrator. Violations include, but
are not limited to, a purchase of items substantially for personal use; cards
may not be used for personal purchases, cash advances or purchases that exceed
the authorized purchase amount. Anyone who makes unauthorized purchases or
advances will be liable for the amount of such purchases or advances, plus any
administrative fees charged by the bank or corporation in connection with the
misuse.
      (2)   Card user violations of this policy or of any policy regarding the
purchase of goods or services will be investigated and may result in any or all
of the following actions, but not limited to: written warning, revocation of
credit card privileges, including purchasing authority, disciplinary action,
termination and/or criminal prosecution. Human error and extraordinary
circumstances may be taken into consideration when investigating any violation
of this agreement. The City Clerk-Finance Director or City Administrator has
the authority to investigate and to determine whether a violation of purchasing
or credit card policy has occurred and to determine the action deemed most
appropriate pursuant to applicable law and/or city policy.
   (F)   Receipts. It is the responsibility of each credit card user to obtain
receipts from the vendor each time it is used, including receipts for travel.
These are to be immediately forwarded to the City Clerk-Finance Director for
review and to ensure eligibility and signature of user for payment. Failure to
provide the required documentation for payment processing may subject the user
to loss of credit card or travel privileges and may cause the amount charged to
be classified as a personal purchase by the card user. The city shall keep
statement data and proof of reconciliation, including receipts and packing
slips, on file for a period consistent with the record retention requirements
of the law. Any department who fails to provide receipts and allow for timely
payment of the credit card will also subject the user to any finance charges
incurred on the charge.
   (G)   Disputes, safeguarding and lost or stolen cards. It is each user’s
responsibility to follow up on any erroneous charges, returns, disputes or
adjustments to ensure proper credit is given on subsequent statements.
Authorized card users are responsible for the card’s protection and custody. An
issued card or card account number should always be treated with utmost care
and secured to prevent misuse by unauthorized users. When using a card for
internet purchases, users should ensure that the site utilizes industry-
recognized encryption transmission tools. It is the responsibility of each
department that possesses a card and/or account number to keep such information
secured and track department usage among authorized users. If a credit card is
lost or stolen, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately contact the
City Clerk-Finance Director, who will make contact with the issuer and take the
appropriate steps to protect the account from unauthorized purchases. The City
Clerk-Finance Director can be contacted after normal hours of operation.
   (H)   City Clerk-Finance Director responsibilities. City employees must
receive approval from the City Clerk-Finance Director and/or City Administrator
to have permission to use the city’s cards, and each department is responsible
for notifying the City Clerk-Finance Director of their authorized users. Each
city department will provide such a listing, which includes the signature of
each user, to the City Clerk-Finance Director. Any additions or deletions to
this authorized list will require the same method of notification. The City
Clerk-Finance Director is responsible for ensuring the proper use of all cards
and/or account numbers of the city. Those duties include, but are not limited
to, timely reconciliation of all accounts, appropriate record keeping, knowing
card limitations and restrictions, developing and implementing internal
procedures that govern the usage and communicating with the City Administrator
on any issues.
   (I)   Ownership and cancellation of cards. The authorized employee and his
or her department head are accountable for all activity on the credit card
issued. The bank or the City Clerk-Finance Director or City Administrator may
limit, suspend or terminate charging privileges at any time without cause.
(Ord. 462, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 35.15 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers, as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for the use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the Director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director and representatives from
counties, cities and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the purpose
of this section, any negotiated discount, processing or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card or debit card companies, or
third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or charge
card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of the
surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and shall
be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card,
charge card, debit card or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be
authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
§ 35.16 MAKING PAYMENTS NOT LISTED IN BILL PRESENTATION.
   The city recognizes the need for the City Administrator/Clerk/Treasurer to
make payments on budgeted items not listed in the most recent bill
presentation, provided that all such bills are presented by or approved and are
accounted for in the following bill presentation.
(Res. 2019-08, passed 12-18-2019)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.30 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.31 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.32 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year, or on or after the first day of its biennial period, and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.33 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.34 of this chapter.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a
grand total of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.34 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the City
Council shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the said hearing, as
well as a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city. The City Clerk shall make available to the public the proposed budget
statement prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on such proposed
budget statement. After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted or
amended, and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made of such
hearing. If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 1-504)
   (B)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act or
Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she shall
immediately notify the Council of such errors. The Council shall correct any
such error as provided in §
35.39 of this chapter. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the
budget adopted under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or
noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
   (C)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Ord. 296, passed 11-21-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 13-506 and 13-507
§ 35.35 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year,
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this
subsection, the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
35.33 of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.36 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State Budget
Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Council may
appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.37 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.38 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.39 of this chapter or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.39 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522 such that
the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522;
or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For the purpose of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.34 of this chapter, the City Council may, or within 30 days after
notification of an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall,
correct an adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting
error which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or
increase the amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be
required for such a correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a
copy of the corrected budget with the county clerk of the county or counties in
which the City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
City Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.40 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection, disposal
or handling utility or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to
the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted, or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the
adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function. Any income
from a proprietary function which is transferred to the General Fund of the
city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement created
pursuant to the State Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.55 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have the power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in
any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.56 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have the power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.57 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.58, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.58 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637 or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS
80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the
Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require or
obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid
by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase
contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved
according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a
public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of Aeronautics
in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport, are not
included in the levy limits established by this division (A). The limitations
on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all other general or
special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the
only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or
authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this
section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless
approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law and off-street parking districts established
under the Off-Street Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. For off-street parking districts established under the Off-Street
Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city
proportionately by dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The City Council shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of
the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater
than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as
provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 to 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass not more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.59 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.60 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax request for the
current year shall be not more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS
77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set the
amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set its property tax request
at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior year, it may do
so to the extent allowed by law after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with
division (D) below. If any county, city, school district or community college
seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of
Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax
request for the current year shall be not more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set
its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in
the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or
ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any county, city, school
district or community college seeks to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall
comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in
divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purpose of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. If the city’s total operating budget, not including reserves,
does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the notice may
be posted at the City Council’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior year
to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a city’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city’s property tax request
in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of city) proposes to adopt a property tax request that
will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of city) will exceed last year’s
by         percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 35.61 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any
county, city, school district or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   (a)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County
Clerk or his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated
representative of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on
the political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more
than the allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the
political subdivision’s budget.
         (b)   The presentation shall include:
            1.   The name of the political subdivision;
            2.   The amount of the property tax request; and
            3.   The following statements:
               a.   The total assessed value of property differs from last
year’s total assessed value by       percent;
               b.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $      per $100 of assessed value;
               c.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $      per $100 of
assessed value;
               d.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by       percent; and
               e.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 10,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
below to the county assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall notify the
County Assessor of the date, time and location of the joint public hearing not
later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each participating
political subdivision of the date, time and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) below to a printing service
designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the postcards
shall be paid from the county’s General Fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at
least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating
and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials and postage, shall
be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions participating in the
joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each participating
political subdivision. Each participating political subdivision shall also
maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision’s website to the political subdivision’s proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
city with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   (a)   The postcard sent under this division (C)(9) and the notice
posted on the county’s website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) above, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing and the
amount of each participating political subdivision’s property tax request.
         (b)   The postcard shall also contain the following information:
            1.   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: “NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;”
            2.   The name of the county that will hold the joint public
hearing, which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described
in subdivision (C)(9)(b)1. above;
            3.   The following statement: “The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates;”
            4.   The parcel number for the property;
            5.   The name of the property owner and the address of the
property;
            6.   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
            7.   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            8.   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
            9.   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            10.   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
            11.   The following statement: “To obtain more information
regarding the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at
the telephone number provided in this notice.”
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above, the
governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property tax
request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $      per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $      per $100 of assessed
value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision) will
exceed last year’s by       percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
         (c)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
         (d)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
         (e)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
         (f)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint
public hearing.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
§ 35.62 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the city shall have the power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any city that collects the annual motor vehicle fee authorized
under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS 60-3,104 and,
as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle Registration
Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and Registration System;
and
         (b)   Any city that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County Treasurer
to the Road Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 35.63 SALES AND USE TAX.
   The city imposes a sales and use tax of 1.50% upon the same transactions
which the state is authorized to impose a sales and use tax for a period of 15
years, which additional sales and use tax shall commence April 1, 2011, for the
purpose of providing funds to pay the cost of improving and maintaining city
streets, as may be determined by the city, including the debt incurred for such
improvements and maintenance.
(Ord. 376, passed 11-29-2010)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of any of the foregoing
sections of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
CHAPTER 36: CITY POLICIES, PLANS AND AGREEMENTS
Section
Sexual Predator Residency Restriction Policy
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Findings and intent
   
36.03   Residency restrictions
Plans
   
36.15   Comprehensive Development Plan
   
36.16   Local Emergency Operations Plan
   
36.17   Cedar and Dixon Counties Multi-jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan
Interlocal Agreements
   
36.30   Emergency dispatch agreement with Dixon County
   
36.31   Northeast Nebraska Economic Development District
   
36.32   Tri-County Mutual Finance Organization
 
   
36.99   Penalty
SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTION POLICY
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq. who has committed an
aggravated offense as defined in Neb. RS 29-4001.01, and who has victimized a
person 18 years of age or younger.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval prescribed in Neb. RS
Chapter 79.
(Ord. 464, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 36.02 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The State Legislature has found certain sex offenders present a high
risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to restrict such
persons’ places of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator Residency
Restriction Act, Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are at high risk to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Ord. 464, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 36.03 RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For the purpose of determining the minimum
distance of separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Exceptions. This subchapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the residency restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 464, passed 6-26-2023) Penalty, see §
36.99
PLANS
§ 36.15 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The 2009 Comprehensive Development Plan is hereby adopted by reference and
enforceable as if set out herein in full as the guide for future growth and
development within the city and its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
(Res. 2012-01, passed 7-30-2012)
§ 36.16 LOCAL EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   In order to provide for a coordinated response to a disaster or emergency in
this county, the city and other cities and villages in the county, the City
Council deems it advisable and in the best interests of the community and the
county to approve the Dixon County Local Emergency Operations Plan and accept
the 2023 Local Emergency Operations Plan, hereby adopted by reference and
enforceable as if set out herein in full.
(Res. 2023-06, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 36.17 CEDAR AND DIXON COUNTIES MULTI-JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The governing body of the city does hereby adopt the Cedar and Dixon
Counties Multi-jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan Update in its entirety,
hereby adopted by reference and enforceable as if herein set out in full.
(Res. 2016-05, passed 5-31-2016; Res. 2021-09, passed 8-9-2021)
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
§ 36.30 EMERGENCY DISPATCH AGREEMENT WITH DIXON COUNTY.
   The Interlocal Cooperation Agreement providing for emergency dispatch and
other services by Dixon County, Nebraska, to the city is hereby approved and
adopted by reference and enforceable as if herein set out in full, and the
Mayor is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement on behalf of the city.
(Res. 2022-05, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 36.31 NORTHEAST NEBRASKA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The city is hereby authorized to join and cooperate with other counties,
incorporated villages and cities that are eligible and may wish to participate
in the creation of the Northeast Nebraska Economic Development District through
the execution of an intergovernmental agreement. Said agreement is hereby
adopted by reference and enforceable as if herein set out in full.
(Res. 2009-08, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 36.32 TRI-COUNTY MUTUAL FINANCE ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The city shall enter into and be a party to the Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement between the City of Wisner, City of Wayne, Village of Winside and the
Ponca Rural Fire District, hereby adopted by reference and enforceable as if
herein set out in full.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized to execute said interlocal cooperation
agreement on behalf of the city.
   (C)   The City Administrator is appointed to represent the City of Ponca on
a joint board that shall be responsible for the administration of this
cooperative undertaking.
(Res. 2010-03, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
36.01 to
36.03 of this chapter shall be punished as provided generally in division (B)
(2) below.
      (2)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of division (B)(1)
above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not
to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
(Ord. 464, passed 6-26-2023)
CHAPTER 37: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
37.01   Fee schedule
§ 37.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Council has determined that the fee structure for services
and products provided by the city shall be as follows.
   (B)   Any person who commences any work before obtaining the necessary
permit shall be subject to a penalty equal to 100% of the usual permit fee in
addition to the required permit fee. The payment of the fee for the
reconstruction, alteration, removal or demolition for work done in connection
to or concurrently with the work authorized by a permit shall not relieve the
applicant or holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that are
prescribed by law.
Animal Ownership Licenses and Fees
Animal Ownership Licenses and Fees
Chickens (8 total, no roosters)                     $20
   Each additional chickens (must be approved by $2.50
Council)
Daily charge for impounded animal                   Actual cost from South Sioux
                                                    City Animal Control (SSCAC)
Destruction of dog                                  $20
Dog running at large
   Warning                                       No fee
   1st violation per animal                      $20
   2nd violation per animal                      $30
   3rd violation per animal                      $35
   4th and all ensuing violations                $40
   *If a dog is picked up by the Police Department for running at large or other
code violation, every attempt will be made to locate the owner of the animal; but
if the owner is unknown the animal will be transported to South Sioux City Animal
Control after 8 hours and the notice of impoundment will be posted on the City of
Ponca Facebook page
Each spayed or neutered dog                         $8/year
   All other dogs                                $10/year
Impoundment fines and fees
   1st violation per animal                      $20 + actual cost SSCAC
   2nd violation per animal                      $30 + actual cost SSCAC
   3rd violation per animal                      $35 + actual cost SSCAC
   4th and all ensuing violations                $45 + actual cost SSCAC
Kennel license                                      $50
   *A kennel license is required for any lot or parcel of land or place where
more than three dogs or more than three cats over the age of 12 weeks are
confined, treated, boarded, housed or cared for, and shall include any lot or
parcel of land or place where a person, corporation or other entity engages in,
conducts, manages or maintains a veterinary business, regardless of the number of
animals treated, kept, confined or boarded
   *A kennel license requires an application with approval signatures from all
adjacent property owners; all kennel applications will be approved or denied by
the City Council; an unlicensed kennel is declared a nuisance
Unlicensed dog as of March 15 each year             2x permit cost
Voluntary impoundment of dog                        $35
*The fees for dog licenses include the state license fee established in Neb. RS
54-603
Building Permit and Other Associated Permit Fees
Total Valuation Fee
Building Permit and Other Associated Permit Fees
Total Valuation                                          Fee
$1 to $3,000                                             $50
$3,001 to $10,000                                        $100
$10,001 to $50,000                                       $200
$50,001 to $100,000                                      $300
$100,001 to $300,000                                     $400
$300,001 to $500,000                                     $500
$500,001 and up                                          $600
 
Addition, garage, accessory building                     Follow above schedule
Administrative fee (applies to all building related      $25
permits)
Building moving (not applicable is less than 12W x 24L x $100
15H)
Curb or street cutting ($250 deposit)                    $50 + replacement cost
Decks (unenclosed, attached to dwelling)                 $75
Fence                                                    $50
Occupancy permit                                         $50
Private driveway                                         $50
Sign permit                                              $15
Swimming pool permit
   Above ground                                       $50
   In ground                                          $100
Refund policy: 80% of the building permits, building associated permits and
utility hookup fees may be refunded if the work has not commenced and the
request for refund is made within 6 months of the date of permit issuance
 
Cemetery Fees
Cemetery plot                   $250
Cremation grave opening/closing $250
Full grave opening/closing      $550
 
Community Center Fees
Rental deposit             $150
Rental per day             $100
Rental for two consecutive $150
days
   *Any person, group or business wanting to rent the community center will
be required to pay a deposit and rental fee prior to use of the facility;
any person, group or business that is able to produce a document showing a
non-profit status will receive a 50% discount; reservations are first come
first serve
 
Liquor and Tobacco Licenses
Liquor licenses See Liquor License Commission website www.lcc.nebraska.gov for
                types and fees
Tobacco license    $10/year
  Office and Other Miscellaneous Fees
  Office and Other Miscellaneous Fees
ATV/UTV permit                  $25
Copies of city documents        $0.50/page
Copy of code book               $25
Credit card utility payment fee 3%
Facsimile                       $1/page
Insufficient funds              $25
Legal size - black and white    $1
Legal size - color              $2
Mobile food vending permit      $10/day
Peddler permit                  $10/day
Returned check                  $25
Scanning                        $5
Standard size - black and white $0.25
Standard size - color           $0.50
Police and Nuisance Violation Fees
Accident report copy $3
Police and Nuisance Violation Fees
Accident report copy               $3
Copies of police related photos    $5
Dead or dangerous tree removal     $25 + contractor removal cost
Impounded vehicles                 $10 per day+ towing
Parking violation
   Warning                      No fee
   1st offense                  $15
   2nd offense                  $30
   3rd and all subsequent offens$45
*The fines for parking violations, paid within 7 days
   *The fines for parking violations will double if not paid within 7 days
from the date the citation was issued
Warning                            No fee
Note: all nuisance violations requiring abatement will be charged an
additional clean-up cost of $75 per hour, per 1 employee and 1 piece of
equipment or the contractor cost for removal or correction of the nuisance
Utility Services
Utility Services
Marked city owned utility line damage repair       $100 + actual repair cost
Natural gas reconnection fee                       $191
Request curb stop turn-on/off                      $10
Request for movement of utility line or meter      Actual cost
Request natural gas turn-on/off                    $91
Utility tapping, service base rate, and usage fees See utility rate ordinance
Water utility reconnection fee                     $100
Zoning and Vacation Fees
Zoning and Vacation Fees
Attorney review                               $50 + actual charges
Conditional use permit                        $50
Engineering review                            $50 + actual charges
Request for variance                          $50
Right-of-way vacation (alley or street)       $200
Subdivision/lot split
   Per lot created from subdivision/lot spl$5
   Plat review by City Council             $50
Zoning change request                         $50
 
(Ord. 470, passed 10-30-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   GARBAGE
      
54.   GAS
      
55.   UTILITY RATE AND FEE SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.05   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action
   
50.06   Utility services
Utility Franchises
   
50.15   Franchise required
   
50.16   Exception
   
50.17   Utility providers in annexed territory
Plumbers
   
50.30   “Licensed plumber” defined
   
50.31   Procedure to obtain license
   
50.32   Renewal of license
   
50.33   Term of license
   
50.34   Fees to be paid to City Treasurer
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Chapter 37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in this city shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitation or discharge in bankruptcy
proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in
this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for nonpayment
of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives notice to any
subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such notice shall be
given in person, by first-class mail or by electronic delivery, except that
electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber has specifically
elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If notice is given by
first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall be conspicuously
marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least
seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends shall be
excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company shall not
charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility service that
exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) above shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the utility’s employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s, physician
assistant’s or advanced practice registered nurse’s certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility’s service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division (C)(7)
for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 to 70-1614 shall apply to disputes
over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any city utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner that
any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas or water service without the knowledge
and consent of any city utility supplying such service if the service has been
disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 to 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter or by any instrument, device or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas or water passing through it, without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying the electricity, electric
current, gas or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit and reasonable attorney fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes, or rent assessed by the City Council shall be
a lien upon the premises or real estate, upon or for which the same is used or
supplied; and such taxes, rents or rates shall be paid and collected and such
lien enforced in such manner as the Council shall by ordinance direct and
provide.
   (B)   All sewer and natural gas charges established by the City Council
shall be a lien upon the premises or real estate for which the same is used or
supplied. Such lien shall be enforced in such manner as the Council provides by
ordinance.
   (C)   If the service charge established by the City Council for the use of
any city utility is not paid when due, such sum may be recovered by the city in
a civil action or it may be certified to the County Assessor and assessed
against the premises served and collected or returned in the same manner as
other city taxes are certified, assessed, collected, and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the City Council otherwise provides, on June 1 of each year,
the City Clerk shall report to the Council a list of all unpaid accounts due
for utilities service together with a description of the premises served. If
the Council approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the report to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-925.01
§ 50.06 UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Applications and accounts for utility services. Any person desiring a
supply of any city utility must make an application for it to the City Clerk on
forms designated by the Clerk. The application shall be accompanied by proof of
valid identification in a form of the Clerk’s choosing and any other
information the Clerk deems pertinent to processing the application. Any
application submitted and utility account established as a result thereof shall
be made in the name(s) of the person(s) requesting the utility.
   (B)   Applications submitted by and accounts established for tenants,
lessees and others who are not a record owner of the property. If the applicant
for utility service is a tenant, lessee or any other individual who is not a
record owner of the property to which the utility is to be supplied, the
account will be established in the name(s) of, and billing submitted to, such
tenant, lessee or other individual; provided, however, the city will provide
utility service to such person on the following conditions.
      (1)   Such person expressly agrees the city may provide account
information, in writing, to the property’s record owner, including, but not
necessarily limited to, account balances, account delinquencies and shutoff
notices. Under no circumstances, however, shall the city share such person’s
Social Security number, credit or debit card number, or banking information
with the property’s record owner.
      (2)   Such person expressly agrees the city may shut off any utility, at
the written request of the property’s record owner, in the event the account is
delinquent, and after all shut off notices have been provided according to law.
      (3)   The property’s record owner shall continuously maintain on file
with the City Clerk a current and valid physical and mailing address and
telephone number, and shall promptly notify the City Clerk in writing of any
changes thereto. Under no circumstances will the city be responsible for
researching or otherwise attempting to ascertain an address, telephone number
or any other contact information, or any updates thereto, of the property’s
record owner for any purpose.
   (C)   Utility security deposits. For the purpose of guaranteeing payment,
each applicant for utility service shall make a non-interest-bearing deposit to
the City Clerk in an amount established by resolution of the City Council. If
the applicant is not the property’s record owner, an additional non-interest
bearing deposit may be required of the record owner in an amount established by
resolution. Any such deposit shall be recorded and maintained by the City Clerk
and shall remain continuously on file; provided, however, it shall be refunded
in the event there are no account delinquencies for a period of one year from
the date of initial deposit. The deposit may be applied toward the payment of
any delinquent account; if so applied, an additional full security deposit
shall be made as a condition of continued service.
   (D)   Utility billing cycle. The City Clerk will bill for utilities on the
twelfth of each month or on the next business day thereafter whenever the
twelfth is not a business day. Account payments are due, and the City Clerk
must receive payment in full, on or before the first day of the following
month. Any account not paid in full by the first day of the month is deemed
delinquent on the second day of the month and is subject to assessment of a
late fee and disconnect as provided by law. Any amount delinquent, including
any late fees, shall constitute a lien on the premises to which the utility was
supplied, regardless of the name(s) in which the utility account is titled. The
City Clerk shall index the lien in the records of the office of the county
register of deeds and shall mail a copy of it by regular U.S. mail to the
address of the property’s record owner on file.
   (E)   Late fees. A late fee in the amount of 10% shall be charged to any
account each month any balance or portion thereof due is delinquent.
   (F)   Utility meters. Any utility meter that measures a utility provided by
the city shall be furnished and installed by the city or its contracted agent.
Only meters approved by the city shall be installed and used. Meters shall be
and remain the property of the city. As a condition of continued service, the
customer shall keep all meters clean and in good repair, at the customer’s
expense, and the owner or occupant of the premises where a meter is located
shall provide ready and convenient access to the meter so it might be easily
examined, accessed and read by city personnel. If the meter is located inside a
residence, the city shall give 24 hours’ notice to the owner or occupant if the
meter needs to be accessed; if access is denied, the city reserves the right to
disconnect service until such time access is permitted. The city reserves the
right to test, repair and replace any utility meter at any time.
   (G)   Utility defined. For the purposes of this section, UTILITY shall mean
water, sewer, gas and garbage disposal service.
(Ord. 471, passed 3-25-2024; Res. 2024-07, passed 4-29-2024)
UTILITY FRANCHISES
§ 50.15 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No person, company, association, firm, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation or other entity shall, at any place or location within the
city, without first having obtained a franchise or permit from the city:
   (A)   Provide, sell, furnish, transport or distribute natural gas,
electricity, water or sewer;
   (B)   Erect, construct, operate, maintain or use any natural gas pipeline,
service line, plant or system, gas works, power plant, electric or other light
works, heating plant, waterworks or sewage plant for the purpose of providing,
selling, furnishing, transporting or distributing natural gas, electricity,
water or sewer service to any user or consumer within the city;
   (C)   Use the streets or alleys of the city for such purposes; or
   (D)   Interconnect any building, structure or facility of any kind to any
pipeline, system, main, service line or other conduit or facility of any type
for the purpose of providing, selling, furnishing, transporting or distributing
natural gas, electricity, water or sewage.
(Prior Code, § 4-601) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 EXCEPTION.
   Section §
50.15 of this chapter shall not apply to the city, operating through Ponca
Public Utilities, which is the primary provider of public utilities to or at
all points and locations within the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-602)
§ 50.17 UTILITY PROVIDERS IN ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any entity which provides public utilities to or at any point or location
annexed by the city shall have six months after the effective date of
annexation within which to transfer the public utility services to the city and
shall not continue to provide those public utilities thereafter unless it has
obtained a franchise or permit from the city in accordance with §
50.15 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-603)
PLUMBERS
§ 50.30 “LICENSED PLUMBER” DEFINED.
   The term LICENSED PLUMBER as used in this code and the ordinances of this
city is hereby defined to denote any person to whom a plumber’s license has
been duly issued or renewed, as hereinafter provided, which has not been
revoked or terminated by lapse of time.
(Prior Code, § 6-201)
§ 50.31 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person wishing to obtain a license as a plumber shall file in the
office of the City Clerk a written application asking to become a licensed
plumber and stating his or her willingness to be governed in all respects by
the ordinances of said city and all rules and regulations now in effect or
hereafter to be adopted by said city concerning its utility systems. Such
application shall be presented by the City Clerk to the City Council at its
next meeting thereafter held.
   (B)   (1)   Once the City Council has been satisfied of the business
capacity, qualifications and good reputation of the applicant and of his or her
worthiness to receive a license, and upon his or her payment to the City Clerk
of a license fee of $5 and his or her filing with the City Clerk a bond with
corporate surety to be approved by the Council in the penal sum of $2,000,
conditioned upon the following:
         (a)   His or her indemnifying and keeping harmless the city from all
liability for any damage arising from any negligence or unskilled act in doing
or protecting his or her work, or from any unfaithful or inadequate work done
in pursuance of his or her license; and
         (b)   His or her restoring the streets, alleys, sidewalks and
pavements over the pipes he or she may lay, filling all excavations made by him
or her so as to leave said streets, alleys, sidewalks and pavements in as good
a condition as he or she found them and keeping and maintaining the same in
good order to the satisfaction of the City Council for the period of one year
next thereafter.
      (2)   He or she will also pay all fines that may be imposed upon him or
her for a violation of any of the ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by
this city and in force during the term of his or her license.
   (C)   Said Council may then grant to such applicant a license, to be issued
by the City Clerk, authorizing the applicant to engage in business as a
licensed plumber in said city for and during the then current municipal year.
Said license and bond shall cover all employees of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6-202)
§ 50.32 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted as provided in §
50.31 of this chapter may be renewed from year to year at the option of the
City Council, on application therefor, upon payment of the license fee of $5
for the year and the renewal of applicant’s bond.
(Prior Code, § 6-203)
§ 50.33 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The term of each license or renewal may be revoked at any time, at the
option of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-204)
§ 50.34 FEES TO BE PAID TO CITY TREASURER.
   The City Clerk shall pay over to the City Treasurer all license fees
collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise indicated, anyone violating any of the terms and
conditions of the foregoing chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation
of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-601)
   (B)   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of §§
50.15 to
50.17 of this chapter for which penalty is not therein provided shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum
not exceeding that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Operations and funding
   
51.003   Licensed plumbers
   
51.004   Complaints
Service Connection and Maintenance
   
51.015   Mandatory hookup
   
51.016   Application for consumers
   
51.017   Water contract
   
51.018   Water contracts not transferrable; duty to notify Utilities
Superintendent
   
51.019   Service to a single premises only; meter tampering
   
51.020   Installation procedure
   
51.021   Installation expense
   
51.022   Nonresident installation expense
   
51.023   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.024   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
51.025   Inspections
Fees, Billing and Payment
   
51.040   Fees and collections
   
51.041   Minimum rates
Restricted and Prohibited Actions
   
51.055   Fire hydrants; opening or interference
   
51.056   Pollution of water supply
   
51.057   Destruction of property
   
51.058   Mechanical heat pump device hookup
Backflow Regulations
   
51.070   Policy and purpose
   
51.071   Definitions
   
51.072   Surveys and investigations
   
51.073   Where protection required
   
51.074   Type of protection required
   
51.075   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.076   Booster pumps
   
51.077   Yard hydrants
   
51.078   Fire suppression systems
   
51.079   Violations
   
51.080   Liability claims
Protection of City Water System
   
51.095   Definition
   
51.096   Intent
   
51.097   Prohibited proximity to municipal wells, tanks or mains for certain
structures, activities
   
51.098   Construction of private well; permit required
   
51.099   Exemption from limitations
   
51.100   Existing wells
   
51.101   Wellhead protection area
Drought Emergency Contingency Plan
   
51.115   Drought emergency water restrictions implemented; liability of city
   
51.116   Stage One: Water Watch
   
51.117   Stage Two: [missing text]
   
51.118   Stage Three: Water Emergency
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Chapter 37
   Utility services, see §
50.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water and disbursing the same in the city.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shutoff, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending to a point at or near
the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shutoff, stop box or curb
cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 51.002 OPERATIONS AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns and operates a waterworks plant and water system in and
for the city through the Utilities Superintendent, and said city hereby adopts
the following as the rules, regulations, services and usage of the city
waterworks plant and water system, which will govern the operation of the
system.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the costs of the care, management and
maintenance of the city waterworks plant and water system, the city may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. Revenue from said tax shall be known as the
Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the direct management and control of the city water
system and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. Said
Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to prepare rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the water system
subject to the approval, supervision and review of the City Council. The
Council shall set by ordinance the rates to be charged for services rendered
and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
§ 51.003 LICENSED PLUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipe fitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from said system. In addition, no plumber shall do any work upon the service
pipe or any other portion of the plumbing system of any premises, either within
or without a building, in an amount of $50 or more without first securing a
permit from the City Council to do such work. All plumbing shall be done in the
manner required by the 2018 Uniform Plumbing Code or according to acceptable
plumbing practices of the area. Said plumber shall be at all times subject to
the inspection and approval of the Plumbing Inspector, and it shall be further
unlawful to cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing
work.
(Prior Code, § 6-137) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Superintendent may appear before the City Council and
present such grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself aggrieved
by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of water or for the
resumption of water service after the same shall have been shut off shall pay
such charge under protest, in which event, the City Clerk shall write on the
receipt given such customer the words “Paid Under Protest.” Said consumer may
then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for presenting
claims to the City Council for a refund of the amount so paid under protest.
Such claims shall then be considered by the City Council in the same manner as
other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-120)
SERVICE CONNECTION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 51.015 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons whose property abuts a water main that is now or hereafter may
be laid shall be required, upon notice of the City Council, to hook up with the
city water system.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 51.016 APPLICATION FOR CONSUMERS.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make
application to the City Clerk upon a form to be furnished by him or her. The
applicant shall be required to accompany his or her application with a meter
deposit, said fee to be set from time to time by resolution of the City
Council. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except
upon the order of the Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply
water service to any person outside the corporate limits without special
permission from the City Council; provided, the entire cost of laying mains,
service pipe and supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the city to provide
water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The city, through its water system, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a city commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and may
also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate
limits of the city, as and when, according to law, the City Council may see fit
to do so. The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this
chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served.
   (B)   Without further formality, the making of an application on the part of
any applicant or the use or consumption of water by a present consumer and the
furnishing of water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract
between the consumer and the city, to which said contract both parties are
bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter adopt,
the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premises or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to said building, premises or place shall
again be made except by order of said Utilities Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
§ 51.018 WATER CONTRACTS NOT TRANSFERRABLE; DUTY TO NOTIFY UTILITIES
SUPERINTENDENT.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose of or move from the premises
where service is furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or
other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent,
who shall cause the water service to the said premises to be shut off. If the
consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all
water used on the said premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise
advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)
§ 51.019 SERVICE TO A SINGLE PREMISES ONLY; METER TAMPERING.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment, without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
Each tenant or lessee shall be responsible for all water service used in any
space rented or leased by him or her.
   (B)   Each separate apartment or other leased premises shall be deemed to be
a separate user of the city water supply and shall be required to pay any
deposit and use fees as established by resolution of the City Council and
placed on file in the office of the City Clerk. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any contrivance or
device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the water will not
pass through the meter or, while passing through said meter, to cause the meter
to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.020 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must
be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience
to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade. After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks
shall be restored to good condition.
      (2)   If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall
have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall
be charged to the consumer.
   (B)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when connections
or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The second
inspection shall be made after the work is completed and the service has been
restored. It is the consumer’s responsibility to notify the Utilities
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision of and strictly in accordance
with the terms established by the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-105) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer shall pay the cost of tapping the main and installing the water
meter. The city shall provide the labor up to and including the curb stop at
the lot line of the customer. No person, other than the Superintendent or his
or her duly authorized agent, shall tap the water main. The customer shall pay
a tap fee in such sum as the City Council has set and placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk; provided that a tap for a three-fourths-inch pipe
shall be deemed to be the minimum or base tap fee. The customer shall, at his
or her own expense, bring water service from the curb stop to his or her own
premises by employing a plumber, who shall install water service, including the
water meter, to the place of discharge. The city shall provide the water meter.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 327, passed 2-24-2005) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 NONRESIDENT INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   Applicants for water service whose property is situated outside the
corporate limits of the city shall pay tap or connection fees in such sum as
the Mayor and City Council shall, in each case, fix; provided, however, nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate the city to furnish water service to
nonresidents unless it is able to do so without overloading its pumps,
machinery or other equipment.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 51.023 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SERVICE LINE. The line beyond the curb stop to the consumer’s property.
      TAPLINE. The line between the water main and the curb stop.
   (B)   (1)   Repairs to the water mains, tapping lines and curb stops for
each water customer shall be the responsibility of the Water Department.
Repairs beyond the curb stop to the property shall be the responsibility and
expense of the customer.
      (2)   In the event the consumer discovers, in making repairs, that
repairs are necessary to the curb stop, tapping line or the main line, he or
she shall immediately notify the city and make no repairs to said line without
authorization from the Utilities Superintendent. In the even the city shall, in
the process of making repairs to the main, tapping line or curb stop, or for
any other reason, discover that repairs are necessary to the service line, it
shall immediately notify the customer. If the customer shall thereafter refuse,
neglect or in any way fail to make the necessary repairs to the service line,
the city shall notify the customer that the water service will be discontinued
by shutting off the valve in 24 hours, unless an emergency exists. In the event
of an emergency, the city may shut off the water forthwith and shall
immediately notify the customer.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 51.024 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solder or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead-free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LEAD-FREE.
         (a)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
         (b)   Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 51.025 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to or in which water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)
FEES, BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 51.040 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such fees
shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk. The
City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the city
on the account of the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully account for
and pay to the City Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, making his
or her receipt in duplicate, keeping one and filing the other in the Water
Department’s official records.
(Prior Code, § 6-110)
§ 51.041 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case he or she
shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is turned on
again.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTIONS
§ 51.055 FIRE HYDRANTS; OPENING OR INTERFERENCE.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Fire Department, under the orders of the Fire Chief or the Assistant
Fire Chief, to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water from
the same, or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 6-117) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.056 POLLUTION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water which supplies the Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-118) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.057 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a stop
box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of
the above-mentioned property without the written permission of the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-123) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 MECHANICAL HEAT PUMP DEVICE HOOKUP.
   No person, partnership, corporation or other entity shall be allowed to hook
up a mechanical heat pump device to the city water system.
(Prior Code, § 6-124) Penalty, see §
51.999
BACKFLOW REGULATIONS
§ 51.070 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these backflow regulations is to protect the public
water supply system of the city from the possibility of contamination or
pollution which may backflow into the system. These regulations provide for the
maintenance of a continuing program of cross-connection controls which will
systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or pollution of the
potable water supply system. Any reference to a SUPERINTENDENT or UTILITIES
SUPERINTENDENT within these backflow regulations shall mean a certified
backflow operator.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall be responsible for the
implementation of the backflow prevention program as outlined within these
regulations. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent, an approved backflow
prevention device is required for the safety of the public water supply system,
then he or she shall give notice in writing to the consumer to install said
device at each recommended location. The Superintendent shall inspect and
approve all installations of the required backflow prevention devices. The
costs for purchasing, installing and maintaining a backflow prevention device
shall be the responsibility and sole expense of the consumer. The installation
of backflow prevention devices, except for outlet fixture vacuum breakers,
shall be by a licensed plumber. Annual testing of all double check valves and
reduced pressure zone devices shall be performed by the Superintendent. If
maintenance or repairs are deemed necessary, the consumer shall be contacted
and issued an order to do all necessary repairs or maintenance. The consumer
shall complete all maintenance or repairs within 30 days; if not, he or she
shall be considered in violation of the backflow regulations and will be
subject to disconnection of the service.
   (C)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection
containing cross-connections to a public water supply system or a consumer’s
potable water supply system unless such cross-connections are abated or
controlled in accordance with this rule, and as required by the laws and
regulations of the state’s Department of Health.
   (D)   For the purposes of these backflow prevention regulations, whenever
the Superintendent is to make any decision or interpretation, or whenever
reference is made to the fact that the Superintendent is to exercise judgment,
such decision, interpretation or judgment shall be in accordance with the
provisions of these backflow prevention regulations and any other applicable
provisions of this municipal code and state and federal law.
(Prior Code, § 6-125) (Ord. 329, passed 2-24-2005)
§ 51.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle. An approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the
supply pipe, measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the receptacle
and in no case less than one inch.
   ANTI-SIPHON VACUUM BREAKER. A device which restricts the backflow of water
into a potable water system by a simple check valve. The vacuum is broken by
allowing air to enter upstream of the check valve.
   APPROVED. A backflow prevention device or method has been accepted by the
Superintendent as being suitable for the intended use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water supply system available to the premises
other than the public water supply system, and includes the water supplied by
such system. These AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEMS may include water from another
owner’s public water supply system, polluted or contaminated water, process
fluids, used water or other sources of water over which the city does not have
sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW or BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or
substances into the water distribution system from any other source than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water supply system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any water supply system located on the
consumer’s premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water
supply system. A household plumbing system is considered to be a CONSUMER’S
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A fire suppression system is also considered a CONSUMER’S
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage or waste
to a degree which could cause an actual hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby contamination due to backflow or
backsiphonage can occur.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. A term derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to
health and the adverse effects upon the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting check valves, including 100% closing shutoff ball valves
located at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing the
water tightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates a real or potential danger to the health and well being
of the consumer.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous uses of two sources of water.
 
   LICENSED PLUMBER. A person who has obtained approval from the Mayor and City
Council to perform plumbing-related work within the city limits. A list of
approved plumbers shall be kept by the City Administrator.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use, or
which does not meet the requirements of the state’s Department of Health.
   OWNER. The entity delivering water through a public water supply system. The
OWNER is the City of Ponca.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing-type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by air gap separation or
backflow prevention devices.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substances (organic,
inorganic or biological) that degrade the quality of water to a degree which
does not necessarily cause an actual hazard to the public health but which does
adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for any desired use.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the state’s Department of
Health.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A water supply system designed and intended to
provide potable water to a designated consumer. The WATER SUPPLY shall include
the water supply source and distribution piping network. WATER SUPPLY SOURCE is
defined as any artificial or natural accumulation of water used to supply the
potable water system. The DISTRIBUTION PIPING NETWORK includes all piping,
pumping and treatment devices used to convey an adequate quality and quantity
of potable water to the consumer.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between two check valves.
During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between
these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of
either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the
atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at
less than the supply pressure. The unit must include 100% closing shutoff ball
valves located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with
properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service line, then the
service connection means the downstream end of the meter.
    SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage
to the physical properties of the public’s or the consumer’s water supply
system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by the public water supply system to a
consumer’s water supply system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water supplier.
(Prior Code, § 6-126)
§ 51.072 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct or
cause to be conducted periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her
premises as necessary to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections in the consumer’s water supply system. The Superintendent shall
have the authority to conduct or cause to be conducted periodic surveys and
investigations of water use practices within a consumer’s premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to the consumer’s water
supply system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into the
public water system. The Superintendent may conduct these surveys to provide
information in determining what level of protection will be necessary to
protect the public health and safety.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent, the consumer shall furnish
information on water use practices within his or her premises. If the consumer
refuses to submit the proper information or to cooperate in obtaining the
proper information, the Superintendent shall treat the premises as if no
appropriate cross-connection survey has been completed, and in such event, the
consumer shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device as
required in §
51.073 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall have the right to enter a premises served by
the public water supply system at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making surveys and investigations of water use practices. In order to inspect a
premises, the Superintendent shall give notice setting forth a proposed date
and time to the consumer at least ten days in advance. If the consumer cannot
make the premises available for inspection at the proposed date and time, the
consumer shall contact the Superintendent and arrange for another date and time
for the inspection. If the Superintendent and the consumer cannot agree on a
date and time, then the Superintendent shall treat the premises as if no
appropriate cross-connection survey has been completed, and in such event, the
consumer shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device as
required in §
51.073 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Public Works is hereby appointed as a hearing board
to hear differences between the Superintendent and any consumer on matters
concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this subchapter by
the Superintendent. Any consumer aggrieved by being required to pay the expense
of installing, furnishing and/or maintaining a backflow prevention device may,
within 14 days of the act or event causing the grievance, request a hearing in
writing to present such grievance to the hearing board. Said board shall
schedule the matter for hearing within 30 days and provide written notice of
the meeting by first-class mail to the consumer. The notice shall be mailed to
the consumer at least seven days and not more than 21 days before the hearing.
      (2)   At the hearing, the consumer shall first state the nature of the
grievance and the Superintendent shall be entitled to respond thereto,
whereupon the hearing board shall render its decision, which will be binding
upon the consumer and the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-127)
§ 51.073 WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when, in the judgment of the Superintendent, a health, plumbing,
pollution or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed when the
following conditions are found by the Superintendent to exist:
      (1)   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to a public water supply system. This
shall include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from a public water supply system which are no longer under
the sanitary control of the owner;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent, are not correctable, or there exist intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it impracticable to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established; and
      (5)   Premises having more than one customer service connection which
could constitute a potential cross-connection.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water supply system serving the following types of
facilities:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings;
      (2)   Testing laboratories, film laboratories, film development
facilities;
      (3)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations;
      (4)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (5)   Chemical plants;
      (6)   Metal de-greasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, dye and
metal processing or productions;
      (7)   Chemical and petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (8)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      (9)   Lawn irrigation systems and swimming pools;
      (10)   Laundries and dry cleaners;
      (11)   Packing houses;
      (12)   Power plants;
      (13)   Premises having radioactive materials such as laboratories,
industries, hospitals;
      (14)   Rendering plants;
      (15)   Premises having a water recirculating system as used for boilers
or cooling systems;
      (16)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feed yards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stockyards, pet grooming salons;
      (17)   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, health clubs;
      (18)   Fire suppression systems;
      (19)   Multistoried buildings greater than three stories in height;
      (20)   Schools, universities, colleges; and
      (21)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connection sites.
(Prior Code, § 6-128) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.074 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
51.073(A) and (B) of this chapter shall depend on the degree of hazard that
exists, as follows.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where a public water
supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a system
hazard or health hazard.
      (2)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where a
public water supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could
cause a pollution hazard.
      (3)   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
shall be installed at the service connection where a plumbing hazard exists.
      (4)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements
or other prohibitions, it is impossible or impractical to make a complete
cross-connection survey of the consumer’s potable water system, a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service
connection.
   (B)   An approved anti-siphon vacuum breaker may be used as a backflow
prevention device where it is not subjected to back pressures. This device
shall not be used for applications where water flow is expected to be
continuous for 12 or more hours. The device shall be installed ahead of the
potential source of contamination on the discharge side of the last control
valve. It shall be placed, at the least, 18 inches above the highest point
reached by any water passing through the potential source of contamination.
Typically, this type of device is used for such equipment as lawn sprinklers,
water-cooled compressors or other water-cooled equipment.
(Prior Code, § 6-129)
§ 51.075 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any approved backflow prevention device required by §
51.073 of this chapter shall be installed at a location and in a manner
approved by the Superintendent. The consumer, at his or her sole expense, shall
obtain and install said approved backflow prevention device within 90 days of
notice and as directed by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Superintendent
prior to the effective date of this rule and which are properly maintained
shall, except for inspection, testing and maintenance requirements, be excluded
from the requirements of division (A) above, but only if the Superintendent
determines that the devices will satisfactorily protect the public water supply
system. If deemed necessary for proper testing by the Superintendent, 100%
closing shutoff ball valves for testing shall be provided on existing backflow
prevention devices. If the Superintendent determines that an existing backflow
prevention device requires replacement, it shall be replaced with an approved
backflow prevention device.
(Prior Code, § 6-130) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.076 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises unless such booster pump is equipped with a low-pressure
cutoff designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cutoff device in proper working order.
(Prior Code, § 6-131) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.077 YARD HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The installation of yard hydrants where water is available or
accessible for drinking or culinary purposes and which have drip openings below
ground surface is prohibited unless such hydrants are equipped with an approved
device to prevent the entrance of groundwater into chambers connected with the
water supply.
   (B)   Yard hydrants or hose bibs which would be used by the consumer to
provide water to mix pesticides, fertilizer or other chemicals for direct use
or aerial application to surface areas shall be equipped with an anti-siphon
vacuum breaker.
   (C)   All underground lawn and garden sprinkler systems shall be equipped
with an approved backflow prevention device.
(Prior Code, § 6-132) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.078 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All proposed installations of fire suppression systems shall be
reviewed by the Superintendent to determine the appropriate type of backflow
prevention device(s) required.
   (B)   All proposed fire suppression systems requiring an antifreeze solution
shall use a pharmaceutical-grade antifreeze. The consumer shall provide to the
Superintendent a certification identifying the type of pharmaceutical-grade
antifreeze which will be used. A double check valve backflow prevention device
shall be installed in an approved manner.
   (C)   A double check valve of an approved type shall be installed on all
proposed fire suppression systems not utilizing antifreeze, but this may be
done only when there are no other cross-connections.
   (D)   All existing fire suppression systems shall meet the requirements of
divisions (B) and (C) above, whichever applies. An inspection by a certified
fire suppression specialist shall be done to determine whether pharmaceutical-
grade antifreeze has been utilized. This shall be done at the expense of the
consumer. If it cannot be certified that only pharmaceutical-grade antifreeze
has been used, then a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
shall be installed as approved by the Superintendent. This also shall be done
at the expense of the consumer.
   (E)   In the event cross-connections, such as those found in using auxiliary
water supply systems or in providing other water additives such as foaming
agents, are necessary for the proper operation of the fire suppression system,
then a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device shall be installed in
an approved manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-133) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.079 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall deny or discontinue the water service to any
premises, after notice to the consumer thereof, wherein:
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent;
      (2)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed;
      (3)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
      (4)   A low-pressure cutoff required by §
51.076 of this chapter is not installed and maintained in working order; or
      (5)   The Superintendent is denied entry to determine compliance with
these regulations.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall, without notice to the consumer thereof,
immediately deny or discontinue the water service to any premises wherein a
severe cross-connection exists which constitutes an immediate threat to the
safety of the public water system. The Superintendent shall notify the consumer
within 24 hours of said denial or discontinuation of service.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-134) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.080 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   The Superintendent shall be relieved from personal liability. The city shall
hold harmless the Superintendent, when acting in good faith and without malice,
from all personal liability for any damage that may occur to any person or
property as a result of any act required or authorized by this chapter, or by
reason of any act or omission of the Superintendent in the discharge of his or
her duties hereunder. Any suit brought for carrying out the provisions of this
chapter shall be defended by the city, or the city’s insurance carrier, if any,
through final determination of such proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 6-136)
PROTECTION OF CITY WATER SYSTEM
§ 51.095 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WATER WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, corralled, bored, washed, dug,
driven, jetted or otherwise constructed for the purpose of exploring for
groundwater, monitoring groundwater, utilizing the geothermal properties of the
ground or extracting water from or injecting water into the underground water.
WATER WELL shall not include any excavation made for obtaining or prospecting
for oils, natural gas, minerals or products mined or quarried or inserting
media to repressure oil- or natural gas-bearing formation.
(Prior Code, § 6-138) (Ord. 274, passed 1-27-2000)
§ 51.096 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to establish control by the city over the
location of future potential sources of contamination within the city, its
extraterritorial jurisdiction or the city’s drinking water system so as to
prevent or minimize any hazard to the safety of the city’s drinking water.
(Prior Code, § 6-139) (Ord. 274, passed 1-27-2000)
§ 51.097 PROHIBITED PROXIMITY TO MUNICIPAL WELLS, TANKS OR MAINS FOR CERTAIN
STRUCTURES, ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, construct or replace any of the
following structures or conduct any of the following activities within the
distance specified below from any existing municipal water well or water
storage tank.
Category Distance
Category                  Distance
Absorption or disposal    500 feet
Cesspool                  500 feet
Chemical storage          500 feet
Corral                    500 feet
Dump                      500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff 500 feet
Field for waste           500 feet
Petroleum storage         500 feet
Pit toilet                500 feet
Sanitary landfill         500 feet
Septic tank               500 feet
Sewage lagoon             1,000 feet
Sewage treatment plant    500 feet
Sewage wet well           500 feet
Water well                1,000 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 6-140) (Ord. 274, passed 1-27-2000; Ord. 330, passed 2-24-2005)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.098 CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE WELL; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The construction of a water well within the corporate limits or within one
mile of the corporate limits of the city shall not be started unless a permit
approved by the City Council has been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 6-141) (Ord. 274, passed 1-27-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.099 EXEMPTION FROM LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may consider allowing placement of water wells, as
defined by state regulations governing public water supply systems (Title 179
NAC 12) and state regulations governing water well construction, pump
installation and water well abandonment standards (Title 178 NAC 12) as amended
from time to time, closer to a municipal water well than the limitations set
forth in §
51.097 of this chapter.
   (B)   Closer placement shall be allowed only under the following conditions.
      (1)   The city shall refer the application to its engineer for evaluation
and report. The estimated cost of the engineer’s fees must be paid at the time
of filing the application. Any additional costs which are reasonably incurred
by the engineer in making his or her examination and report shall be paid by
the applicant, in addition to any previously paid estimated costs.
      (2)   The City Council shall consider the engineer’s report and any
additional information submitted by the applicant. In reaching its decision on
whether to allow the placement of a water well, as above defined, the City
Council must act to prevent all sources of possible or likely water
contamination.
   (C)   If the City Council approves the installation, it shall submit the
application, together with the engineer’s report, to the state’s Department of
Health for a final approval or denial.
   (D)   No installation shall be made without the approval of both the City
Council and the state’s Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 6-142) (Ord. 274, passed 1-27-2000) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.100 EXISTING WELLS.
   Water wells in existence and use shall continue to be permitted unless such
continued existence or use presents a hazard to the quality of the drinking
water available for public use to the city. The owner of any water well shall
have the burden of establishing the existence and use of such well at the time
of the effective date of the ordinance from which this provision originates.
(Prior Code, § 6-143) (Ord. 274, passed 1-27-2000)
§ 51.101 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
water well or well field supplying a public water system through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water or well
field.
   (B)   The city designates a wellhead protection area for the purpose of
protecting the community water supply system. The boundaries of the wellhead
protection area are designated in a map prepared by the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality, which is on file at the office of the City Clerk and
incorporated by reference herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-144) (Ord. 321, passed 1-27-2005)
DROUGHT EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 51.115 DROUGHT EMERGENCY WATER RESTRICTIONS IMPLEMENTED; LIABILITY OF CITY.
   (A)   The City Council, Mayor or the Utilities Superintendent may order a
reduction in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the
event of a water shortage due to fire, drought or other good and sufficient
cause. When such drought conditions occur, then the city will implement the
Drought Emergency Contingency Plan. The city shall not be liable for any
damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the
system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of
water due to circumstances over which the city has no control.
   (B)   The Drought Emergency Contingency Plan consists of a series of stages
based on conditions of supply and demand with accompanying triggers, goals and
actions. Each stage is more stringent in water use than the previous stage
since there will be a greater deterioration in water supply conditions. The
Mayor is hereby authorized to implement the appropriate conservation measures
as set forth in this subchapter when any of the conditions have been reached
which would qualify for any of the specific stages. The Mayor shall declare
each particular stage as deemed appropriate by reviewing the severity of the
trigger conditions and any other additional information, and is further
authorized to implement conservation measures within the guidelines provided
for each particular stage.
(Prior Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 390, passed - -)
§ 51.116 STAGE ONE: WATER WATCH.
   (A)   Triggers. This stage is triggered by any of the following conditions.
      (1)   Groundwater levels have fallen five feet below normal seasonal
levels.
      (2)   System pressure falls below 20 pounds per square inch.
      (3)   Demand for one day is in excess of 750,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to heighten the awareness of the
public on water conditions and maintain the integrity of the water supply
system.
[missing text]
(Ord. 390, passed - -)
§ 51.117 STAGE TWO: [MISSING TEXT].
[missing text]
      (3)   Refilling of swimming pools or hot tubs will be limited to one day
a week after sunset.
      (4)   Excess water use charges for the usage of water over the amount
used in the winter will be imposed at a rate twice the normal rate for water
usage.
      (5)   Wastes of water will be prohibited (i.e., water running down the
street).
(Ord. 390, passed - -)
§ 51.118 STAGE THREE: WATER EMERGENCY.
   (A) Triggers. This stage is triggered by any one of the following
conditions.
      (1)   Groundwater levels have fallen 15 feet below normal seasonal
levels.
      (2)   System pressure falls below 20 pounds per square inch.
      (3)   Pumping lowers water levels to within five feet of the top of the
well screens.
      (4)   Plant operations are at 90% capacity for more than three
consecutive days.
      (5)   Demand for one day is in excess of 750,000 gallons per day.
   (B)   Goals. The goals of this stage are to reduce peak demands by 50% and
to reduce overall consumption by 25%.
   (C)   Education actions.
      (1)   The city will make news releases to local media describing current
conditions and indicating the water supply outlook for the city.
      (2)   The city will hold public meeting(s) to discuss the emergency, the
status of the water supply and further actions to be taken.
   (D)   Management actions.
      (1)   The city water supplies will be monitored daily.
      (2)   Leaks will be repaired within 24 hours of detection.
      (3)   Standby wells will be activated for contingency operation.
      (4)   Pumping at wells will be reduced to decrease drawdown and to
maintain water levels over well screens.
      (5)   The city will seek additional emergency supplies from other users,
including the state or federal government.
   (E)   Regulation actions. In addition to the regulation actions available
under Stage Two, the following regulatory authority may be exercised by the
Mayor.
      (1)   Outdoor water use will be banned, except for businesses which
require outdoor water use to operate.
      (2)   Wastes of water will be prohibited.
[missing text]
(Ord. 390, passed - -)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of the foregoing chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to
exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each
day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-601)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operation and funding
   
52.03   Licensed plumber
   
52.04   Complaints
Service Connection and Maintenance
   
52.15   Mandatory hookup
   
52.16   Application for permit
   
52.17   Sewer contract
   
52.18   Direct connections
   
52.19   Plumber’s liability
   
52.20   Service contracts
   
52.21   Installation procedure
   
52.22   Installation expense
   
52.23   Old house sewers
   
52.24   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.25   Service to nonresidents
   
52.26   Inspections
Fees, Billing and Payment
   
52.40   Classification
   
52.41   Rate setting
Discharge Requirements
   
52.55   Unlawful use
   
52.56   Interceptors or other special equipment
   
52.57   Discharge of certain waters into sanitary sewer system prohibited
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Chapter 37
   Utility services, see §
50.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN or HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
house or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil waste
or other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage
system extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the
main sewer.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for the collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)
§ 52.02 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city owns the sewer system and operates the same through the
Utilities Superintendent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the management and maintenance of the sewer system, may each year levy
a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the
Sewer Maintenance Fund.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have direct management and control
of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department
subject to the supervision and review of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-302)
§ 52.03 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in or
conduct the business of sewer connection and house drainage; excavate any
trenches for sewer pipe; open, uncover or in any manner make connection with or
lay any sewer drain; or attach to, modify or repair any appurtenances without
complying with the rules and regulations of the Utilities Superintendent;
provided that nothing herein shall be construed to apply to persons, firms or
corporations under special contract with the city for the construction,
extension or repair of the city sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Superintendent may appear before the City Council and
present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself
aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of the sewer
or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have been shut off
shall pay such charge under protest, in which event, the City Clerk shall write
on the receipt given to such customer the words “Paid Under Protest.” Such
consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the manner provided for
presenting claims to the City Council for a refund of the amount so paid under
protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the City Council in the same
manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)
SERVICE CONNECTION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 52.15 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   (A)   Upon written notice by the City Clerk, the property owner, occupant or
lessee of any premises that abuts a sewer main that is now or may hereafter be
laid shall, without delay, cause the said building to be connected with the
sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building
hereafter erected shall be connected with the sewer system at the time of its
construction. The property owner, occupant or lessee of any building not
currently connected with the sewer system, upon written notice by the Utilities
Superintendent, shall, without delay, cause his or her building to be connected
with the sewer system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities.
   (B)   In the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall
neglect, fail or refuse, within a period of ten days after notice has been
given to make such connection by registered mail or by publication in a
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, the City Council shall have
the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the costs thereof against the
property and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for
collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) (Ord. 331, passed 2-24-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application to the Superintendent upon the forms to be furnished by him or her
for that purpose.
   (B)   The Superintendent may require any applicant to make a service deposit
in such amount as has been set by the City Council and placed on file at the
office of the City Clerk. Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or
building except upon the written order of the City Clerk. The Department shall
not supply sewer service to any person outside the corporate limits without
special permission from the City Council; provided that in the event sewer
service is supplied to persons outside the corporate limits, the entire cost of
pipe and other installation charges shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate the city to provide sewer service to
nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The city shall furnish sewer services to persons within its corporate limits
whose premises abut a street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may
hereafter be laid. The city may also furnish sewer service to persons whose
premises are situated outside the corporate limits of the city, as and when,
according to law, the City Council may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations
and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every customer now or hereafter
served. Without further formality, the making of the application on the part of
any applicant or the use of sewer service by any present customer thereof shall
constitute a contract between the customer and the city, to which said contract
both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of
said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may
hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off
or disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such
violation. No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises
shall again be made except by order of the Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make such
connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 PLUMBER’S LIABILITY.
   The licensed plumber or drain layer who connects with the public sewer
system shall be held responsible for any damage he or she may cause to the
sewers or the public ways and property. He or she shall restore all streets
that he or she has excavated and make good any settlement of the ground or
pavement caused by his or her excavation, to the complete satisfaction of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-308)
§ 52.20 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall sell, dispose of or move from the premises
where service is furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or
other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent,
who shall cause the sewer service to be shut off from said premises. If the
customer should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period
of time until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)
§ 52.21 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the pipe is laid or
repairs made, the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition.
If the excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished
for a period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the
duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the owner, occupant or lessee of the property.
   (B)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when connections
or repairs are complete and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is
the customer’s responsibility to notify the Utilities Superintendent at the
time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations
and specifications for such installation prescribed by the Superintendent;
provided that the said rules, regulations and specifications have been reviewed
and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall pay to the City Clerk a tap fee, which shall compensate the city for the
expense of processing his or her application and tapping the sewer main. The
Utilities Superintendent shall direct the customer to hire a plumber to tap the
main. The customer shall then be required to pay the expense of the plumber’s
services and the materials required and shall pay all other costs of
installation.
(Prior Code, § 6-311)
§ 52.23 OLD HOUSE SEWERS.
   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new buildings or
new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the Superintendent, to
conform in all respects to the requirements governing new sewers and drains. If
the old work is found defective or otherwise unsatisfactory, the customer shall
be notified and instructed to make the necessary changes to conform with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-318)
§ 52.24 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe constituting
major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer to repair or
replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to and including
the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the customer
shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)
§ 52.25 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   Any person whose premises is located outside the corporate limits of the
city and who desires to install a house or building sewer that will be
connected with the city sewer system shall file a written application with the
City Clerk for a permit for such connection, setting forth the name of the
owner, occupant or lessee of the premises, the use to which the premises is
devoted and such other information as the City Council may require. The City
Council may approve or deny such application in its absolute discretion. If the
Council approves the application, it may do so by attaching whatever conditions
to such approval as it determines necessary.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)
§ 52.26 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violation of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 6-322)
FEES, BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 52.40 CLASSIFICATION.
   The City Council may classify the customers of the Sewer Department for the
purpose of rental fees; provided that such classifications are reasonable and
do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of consumers.
(Prior Code, § 6-313)
§ 52.41 RATE SETTING.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
the customers of the Sewer Department. Rates shall be set by ordinance, and all
such fees and rates shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the
City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money
receive by the city on the account of the Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-314) (Ord. 314, passed 7-26-2004)
DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.55 UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, surface drainage or
unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 6-319) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.56 INTERCEPTORS OR OTHER SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Sewer Department discharges an unusually
large amount of waste daily, or an unusually large amount of grease or oil, or
waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the Superintendent may
require the said customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe, subject to the review
of the City Council. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased
and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special
agreement or arrangement between the City Council and an industrial customer
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other charges.
(Prior Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.57 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WATERS INTO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including interior and
exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial waters into any sanitary sewer system. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged into the sanitary sewer system water from any mechanical
usage, including water heat pumps and water-cooled air conditioners.
(Prior Code, § 6-321) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of the foregoing chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to
exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each
day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-601)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
   
53.01   Garbage collection service
   
53.02   Manner of garbage pickup
   
53.03   Contract with licensed entity
   
53.04   Business and commercial establishments
   
53.05   Fees; delinquent payments
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The city shall provide garbage and refuse collection service for all
residential property within the city limits of said city on a regular basis.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
§ 53.02 MANNER OF GARBAGE PICKUP.
   Said garbage or refuse shall be placed in plastic bags by the resident
occupants and situated on the curb of the road adjacent to each property on the
days specified for the collection of the same. All refuse which cannot be
properly placed in plastic bags may be removed by separate agreement with the
hauler at such additional charge as the hauler may assess. An agreement between
the resident occupant and the hauler shall not be a tax upon said premises. The
Mayor and City Council may, from time to time, alter the type of containers,
manner in which said garbage shall be collected and date or dates on which the
same shall be collected.
(Prior Code, § 6-403) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 CONTRACT WITH LICENSED ENTITY.
   The city is empowered to enter into a contract with any person, partnership
or corporation or other entity who is properly licensed by the state to operate
a sanitary landfill or who has a valid contract with the owner of a properly
licensed sanitary landfill for the removal of said garbage and refuse from the
residential property of the city. Said contract shall be on such terms and
conditions as the Mayor and City Council may agree on.
(Prior Code, § 6-404)
§ 53.04 BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Whoever shall contract with the city for garbage and refuse collection from
the residents of the city shall be granted an exclusive franchise for said
collection of garbage and refuse from the business and commercial
establishments of said city. Said franchise shall run concurrently with the
contract for the residential area. The rates for a commercial and business
establishment shall be negotiated between the contractor and the business, but
shall be subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-405)
§ 53.05 FEES; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   To defray the cost of such garbage removal, there is assessed a tax to be
levied on each residential property, which amount shall be paid in advance by
the residential occupant in the same manner as payment for water usage and
sewer service. The amount of said tax may from time to time be increased or
decreased by resolution of the Mayor and City Council. In the event the payment
of the charges for the removal of garbage and refuse shall be unpaid for a
period of 30 days, the same shall become delinquent, and upon the filing of a
statement with the County Clerk, the same shall constitute a lien upon the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-402) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of the foregoing chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to
exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each
day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-601)
CHAPTER 54: GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Ownership
   
54.02   Contracts and terms
   
54.03   Application for consumers
   
54.04   Gas service contracts
   
54.05   Installation expense; right of entry
   
54.06   Meters in disrepair
   
54.07   Destruction of property
   
54.08   Complaints
Fees, Billing and Payment
   
54.20   Fees and collections
   
54.21   Minimum rates; reconnection fee
   
54.22   Budget payment plan
 
   
54.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Chapter 37
   Utility services, see §
50.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and operates the city gas system. The City Council, for the
purpose of defraying the costs of care, management and maintenance of the city
gas system, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law on the actual evaluation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said
tax shall be known as the Gas Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City
Treasurer. The City Council shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the safe and efficient management of the gas system.
(Prior Code, § 6-501) (Ord. 332, passed 2-24-2005)
§ 54.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The city shall furnish gas to persons whose premises abut on any gas supply
line of the gas distribution system and to such other persons within or without
the corporate limits as and when, according to law, the City Council may see
fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates for gas service shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for gas service and shall
be considered a part of the contract by the Gas Department. The making of an
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption by present
customers, and the furnishing of gas service to said applicants or customers,
shall constitute a contract between the applicant or customer and the city to
which both parties are bound. If the applicant or customer shall violate any of
the provisions of said contract or the rules and regulations that the City
Council has or may hereafter adopt, the city or any of its employees or agents
shall cut off or disconnect the gas service from the place of such violation
and no further connection to such place shall again be made except by order of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-502) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03 APPLICATION FOR CONSUMERS.
   Every person or persons desiring gas service must make application with the
city. Every applicant may be required to make a service deposit in such amount
as has been set by the City Council and placed on file at the office of the
City Clerk. Gas service may not be supplied to any house or building except
upon the written order of the City Council or person designated by the Council
to extend such written order. Gas shall not be supplied to any person outside
the corporate limits without special permission from the City Council, and only
after such person shall have paid the entire cost of pipe installation and of
the expenses of connecting onto said system.
(Prior Code, § 6-503) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 GAS SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for gas service are not transferable. Any person wishing to change
from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose of or move from the premises
where service is furnished in his or her name, or if said premises is destroyed
by fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the city, who shall
cause the gas service to be shut off from said premises. If the consumer should
fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all gas service to the
said premises until the city is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-504)
§ 54.05 INSTALLATION EXPENSE; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Installation expense. The expense of installation and equipment from
the existing gas supply system to the gas meter of any property shall be paid
by the consumer. The expense of installation and equipment beyond the meter to
the place of distribution shall also be the responsibility of the consumer.
   (B)   Installation expense for EFV valve. The city shall charge an
installment fee of $375 for the installation of an EFV (excess flow valve) at
any residence or business within the city limits.
   (C)   Inspection. The city, through any of its employees or agents, may
enter upon the property owned by the consumer to inspect said system at any
reasonable time and may enter any building for the same purpose upon personal
or written notice to the owner or occupant of said premises at least 12 hours
prior to said entry. In case of an emergency, entry may be made immediately.
(Prior Code, § 6-505) (Ord. 423, passed 1-29-2018)
§ 54.06 METERS IN DISREPAIR.
   In the event that any consumer’s meter falls out of repair or fails to
register properly, the city shall charge such customer the same amount billed
one year previous to such disrepair. In the event that there is no such basis
for comparison, the city shall charge the customer such amount as it deems is
fair both to the customer and the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-507)
§ 54.07 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, pipe, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the city gas system.
(Prior Code, § 6-508) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the city may appear before the City Council and present his or
her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself aggrieved by being
required to pay the charge demanded for the use of gas or for the resumption of
gas service after the same shall have been shut off shall pay such charge under
protest, in which event, the City Clerk shall write on the receipt to given
such customer the words “Paid Under Protest.” Such consumer may then present
his or her verified claim in the manner provided for presenting claims to the
City Council for a refund of the amount so paid under protest. Such claims
shall then be considered by the City Council in the same manner as other claims
against the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-514)
FEES, BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 54.20 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
gas consumers for the use of gas. All rates shall be on file for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk, who shall bill the consumers and
collect all money received by the city on the account of the city gas system.
He or she shall faithfully account for and pay over all revenue collected by
the same to the City Treasurer, taking receipt therefor in duplicate, filing
one in the records of the City Clerk and placing the other in the official Gas
Department files.
(Prior Code, § 6-509)
§ 54.21 MINIMUM RATES; RECONNECTION FEE.
   All gas consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
city to shut off the gas, in which case, he or she shall not be liable
thereafter for gas service until the gas is turned on again. Gas consumers may
request that the gas supply be shut off to their residence or place of
business; said shutoff shall be made by the city employees, and the meter to
that residence or place of business shall be locked. Thereafter, no charge
shall be made for gas usage during the period of time that the gas supply is
shut off and the meter locked. Upon request of the gas consumer subsequent to a
shutoff, subject to all other charges for gas usage having been brought current
and the payment of a $191 reconnect fee, city employees may unlock the meter
and turn on the gas supply to said residence or place of business.
(Prior Code, § 6-510) (Ord. 470, passed 10-30-2023)
§ 54.22 BUDGET PAYMENT PLAN.
   All city utility customers who have had service with the city for a minimum
of 12 months and who are current with all of their utility payments may, upon
proper application with the City Clerk, elect to pay for such utilities through
the use of a budget payment plan. The monthly payment for such customer who has
made proper application and who has elected to pay his or her utility bill
under such a budget payment plan shall be the average monthly cost of such
service for that customer’s residence for the previous 12 months. Such monthly
payments shall be reviewed annually on June 1 by the City Clerk and appropriate
adjustments made to such monthly payments based on the average usage for the
past year. Any utility customers of the city who has elected to use such budget
payment plan shall be subject to a disconnection of such utility services by
the city if such customer has a delinquent balance in excess of $250. A
DELINQUENT BALANCE is defined as any balance left on an account after the first
of each month. Any utility customer of the city who has elected to use such
budget payment plan must bring his or her account current on June 1 of each
year so that no delinquency exists; any such utility customer who fails to
bring his or her account current is subject to have such services disconnected
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-515) (Ord. 280, passed 3-29-2001)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of the foregoing chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to
exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each
day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-601)
CHAPTER 55: UTILITY RATE AND FEE SCHEDULES
Section
   
55.01   Utilities deposit
   
55.02   Water rates and fees
   
55.03   Sewer rates and fees
   
55.04   Garbage rates and fees
   
55.05   Gas rates and fees
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Chapter 37
§ 55.01 UTILITIES DEPOSIT.
   There is hereby established a utilities deposit for all city utilities from
every new consumer in the sum of $150 for water and $150 for gas. In the event
of a delinquency in any utility service, the City Clerk may apply the deposit
toward any delinquent services. Providing the utilities customer has no
delinquencies for a period of one year from the date of payment of the deposit,
said deposit shall be returned to the customer.
(Ord. 338, passed 9-29-2005)
§ 55.02 WATER RATES AND FEES.
   (A)   Monthly rates.
      (1)   Base monthly rate. The base monthly rate for consumers of water
supplied by the city shall be as follows.
 
Meter Size Within City Limits Outside City Limits
3/4"       $28.50             $52
1"         $32.35             $59.70
1.5"       $46.20             $87.40
2"         $56.75             $108.50
4"         $106.50            $208
6"         $116.50            $228
 
      (2)   Monthly usage rate. In addition to the base monthly rate for water
provided in division (A)(1) above, monthly water usage rates shall be as
follows.
 
Usage (Gallons) Within City Limits (per 1,000 Outside City Limits (per 1,000
                Gallons or Fraction Thereof)  Gallons or Fraction Thereof)
0—100,000     $2                            $3.85
100,000+        $2                            $3.85
 
   (B)   Tap fee. The fee for tapping the water mains shall be as follows.
 
Meter Size  Within City Limits Outside City Limits
3/4" and 1" $1,250             $3,750
1.5" and 2" $2,250             $4,250
 
   (C)   Water deposit. The basic water deposit shall be $100.
   (D)   Reconnection charge. The water reconnection fee is $100.
(Ord. 338, passed 9-29-2005; Ord. 400, passed 9-29-2014; Ord. 466, passed 9-25-
2023; Ord. 470, passed 10-30-2023)
§ 55.03 SEWER RATES AND FEES.
   (A)   Base monthly rate. The base monthly rate for consumers of sewer
supplied by the city shall be $32.
   (B)   Tap fee. The fee for tapping the sewer main shall be $375.
(Ord. 451, passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 466, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 55.04 GARBAGE RATES AND FEES.
   The rate per month for trash bins supplied by Gill Hauling shall be as
follows:
 
Size of Bin Dollar Amount
Small       $12
Medium      $13
Large       $14
Extra bin   $3
 
(Ord. 466, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 55.05 GAS RATES AND FEES.
   (A)   Base monthly meter rate. The base monthly meter rate for consumers of
natural gas supplied by the city shall be $18.
   (B)   Reconnection fee. The gas reconnection fee is $191.
(Ord. 338, passed 9-29-2005; Ord. 466, passed 9-25-2023; Ord. 470, passed 10-
30-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Placement and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices; exceptions
   
70.04   Careless driving
   
70.05   Reckless driving
   
70.06   Exhibition driving
   
70.07   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
70.08   Front seat crowding
   
70.09   Riding outside of vehicle
   
70.10   Weight limitations
   
70.11   Loads projecting beyond vehicle
   
70.12   Loads spilling from vehicle
   
70.13   Glass, pointed objects on street
   
70.14   Quiet zones; unnecessary noise
   
70.15   Crosswalks
   
70.16   Fire alarms; proximity to fire vehicles or hydrants
   
70.17   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
Vehicle Equipment
   
70.30   Mufflers; muffler cutouts
   
70.31   Engine brakes or Jake brakes
   
70.32   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
Authority and Enforcement
   
70.45   Traffic officers
   
70.46   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.47   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.48   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.49   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.50   Police power during emergencies
   
70.51   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.52   Failure or refusal to obey order
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 to 60-676 shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
state’s Department of Transportation or City Council as a school crossing zone
through the use of a sign or traffic-control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the Manual, but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic-control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until
a sign or traffic-control device indicates that the school crossing zone has
ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the purpose
of travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road placed or erected by the
authority of the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain such traffic-control devices upon
highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to carry
out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide traffic. All
such traffic-control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform with
the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic-
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic-control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic-control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any highway, street or alley
within the city in such a manner as to endanger the safety of others, disregard
the property of others and/or cause immoderate wear and damage to any street or
alley in the city.
   (B)   Any person so operating a motor vehicle within the city limits shall
be deemed guilty of careless driving. It shall be prima facie evidence that a
person has operated a motor vehicle in such a careless manner if he or she has
operated such vehicle in a manner contrary to the duly published rules and
regulations of the Department of Roads of the state governing the use of state
highways.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 3-126) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60,4-182, 60-6,213 and 60-6,215
§ 70.06 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a MOTOR VEHICLE, meaning any self-propelled vehicle,
upon streets or alleys within the city limits or upon property owned by the
city in such a manner so as to cause or create unnecessary engine noise,
squealing of tires, rear skidding, sliding or swaying of such motor vehicle or
possible acceleration of speed of said motor vehicle shall be guilty of
exhibition driving.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in actual
physical control of any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
liquor or of any drugs or when said person has ten-one hundredths of 1% or more
by weight of alcohol in his or her body fluid as shown by chemical analysis of
his or her blood, breath or urine.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical
control a motor vehicle upon the public streets, alleys, avenues or highways of
the city shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to submit to a
chemical test of his or her blood, urine or breath for the purpose of
determining the amount of alcohol content in his or her body fluid.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has been duly authorized to make
arrests for violation of traffic laws of the city or the state may require any
person arrested for any offense arising out of acts to have been committed
while the person was driving or was in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor to submit to a chemical
test of his or her blood, breath or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcoholic content of his or her body fluid when the officer has reasonable
grounds to believe that such person was driving or was in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle upon the public streets, avenues, alleys or highways
of the city while under the influence of alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be punished by
the maximum fine allowed by this code and, in addition, shall have his or her
driver’s license suspended in accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,196 and 60-6,197, as
from time to time amended.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 FRONT SEAT CROWDING.
   (A)   The front seat occupancy of any automobile while the same is in the
process of being started or in motion within the corporate limits shall be
limited to one driver and not more than two persons over the age of 12 years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon
any street when such person has in his or her lap or in his or her embrace
another person, package or other encumbrance which prevents the free and
unhampered operation of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-137) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 RIDING OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   No person shall ride in any part of a motor vehicle other than the regular
passenger seats located within such vehicle, or in the event of a pickup,
within the cab of the pickup and/or seated on the floor of the pickup bed.
(Prior Code, § 3-138) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, establish weight limitations for
any paved street within the city. Any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of
a posted weight limitation shall not be operated on such street.
   (B)   In the case that a vehicle is delivering goods and cannot make such
delivery without crossing or traveling on a street which would cause a
violation of this section, the operator shall obtain from the Police Chief a
designation of the route such vehicle shall take to make such delivery. The
Police Chief shall have the authority to refuse to allow such vehicle to make
said delivery if the harm, no matter what the route, would be extreme.
(Prior Code, § 3-136) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 LOADS PROJECTING BEYOND VEHICLE.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of such
vehicle, a red flag shall be carried by day and a red light after sunset on
such load.
(Prior Code, § 3-140) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,243
§ 70.12 LOADS SPILLING FROM VEHICLE.
   All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, sand, gravel, rock, asphalt, tar
or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to prevent the sifting or
spilling of any of the contents.
(Prior Code, § 3-141) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,304
§ 70.13 GLASS, POINTED OBJECTS ON STREET.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of or containing
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person responsible
for such breakage shall at once remove or cause the same to be removed from the
street.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 70.14 QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   All streets or portions thereof lying within 300 feet of any hospital,
nursing home or school and which have been declared to be “quiet zones” by the
City Council shall be respected as such by all drivers, and no driver of any
vehicle shall, within such zones, make any unnecessary noise or sound the horn
or other warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency. It shall be
unlawful for any person in any part of said city to make, or cause to be made,
any unnecessary noise with any signal device, or to use the same except as a
road signal.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,286 and 60-6,371
§ 70.15 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street and at such other
places as it may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 3-134)
§ 70.16 FIRE ALARMS; PROXIMITY TO FIRE VEHICLES OR HYDRANTS.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of time reasonable under the circumstances after
the sounding of the fire alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of
the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer
than 500 feet to any fire vehicle or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is
connected. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the state’s Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law or
when responding to, but not when returning from, a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections Neb. RS 60-
6,288 to 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
§ 70.30 MUFFLERS; MUFFLER CUTOUTS.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this city shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise. It shall
be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any streets;
provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3-139) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,286
§ 70.31 ENGINE BRAKES OR JAKE BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of the city to make or cause
to be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical devices operated by
compressed air and used for the purpose of assisting braking on any semi-
tractor, commonly referred to as “engine braking.” Proper notices or signs
shall be posted by the city notifying the public of such prohibition.
(Ord. 361, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material, other than rubber, which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter,
inclusive of the stud-casing, with an average protrusion beyond the tread
surface of not more than seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and
April 1, except that school buses, mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles
shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during the
year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer having any metal tire in contact with the
roadway; or equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Rubber-tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.45 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The City Council or the city police may at any time detail officers, to be
known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic officers
shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at the
intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the
movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful
for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic officer
notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may have
been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices
and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such
vehicles without the permission of the City Council or its designated
representative, or in a place, time or manner which has been prohibited by the
City Council, shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The City Council may further authorize the supervising official of any
area under its ownership or control to permit, control or prohibit the
operation of any motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational
vehicle of any or all types, electric bicycle, other powered vehicle, electric
personal assistive mobility device or vehicle which is not self-propelled on
all or any portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by
posting or, in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating
any such vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted or in a manner so as to
endanger the peace and safety of the public, or as to harm or destroy the
natural features or human-made features of any such area, shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic-control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.48 of this chapter;
      (8)   Regulate the operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including the requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate the operation of electric personal assistive mobility
devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the state’s Rules of
the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate the use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic, except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction; and
         (b)   For the purpose of this division, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power-producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss.
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not erect or maintain any traffic-control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17) or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic-control devices giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.48 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation
of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of
vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar year,
when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway,
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The City Council shall erect or
cause to be erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the
ordinance or resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected
thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such
signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.49 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The City Council shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly contrary
to the state’s Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.50 POLICE POWER DURING EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The City Police Department is hereby empowered to make and enforce
temporary regulations to cover emergencies.
   (B)   The city police are hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict and regulate, temporarily divert
or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and convenience and when
necessary, the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-129) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-683
§ 70.51 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers, to enforce the provisions of the state’s Rules of the Road and
this title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or city law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the
highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances, if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.52 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to
particular offenses, a violation of any provision of this title shall
constitute a traffic infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
      (2)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation
of this title for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
         (a)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year
period; and
         (c)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a
one-year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
   (B)   Any person who refuses to submit to a chemical test of his or her
blood, breath or urine for the purpose of determining the alcoholic content of
his or her body fluid as set out in §
70.07 of this chapter, after being fully advised of the consequences of such
refusal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, be fined
not more than that amount allowed by state law for violation of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-127)
   (C)   It shall be considered a misdemeanor for the operator of any vehicle
weighing more than the designated limit, as set out in §
70.10 of this chapter, to operate or park said vehicle on such street.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of §
70.16 of this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in a sum not exceeding that permitted by state law for
violation of a municipal ordinance for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-601)
   (E)   Any person, owner or operator who shall violate the provisions of §
70.31 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance, together with the court costs.
(Ord. 361, passed 8-27-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 to 60-694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Interference with traffic-control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.02   Signs, markers, devices or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.03   Truck routes
   
71.04   One-way traffic
   
71.05   Driving in sidewalk space
   
71.06   Funeral processions
Manner of Driving
   
71.20   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.21   Position of vehicle on highway
   
71.22   Right-of-way generally
   
71.23   Right-of-way at stop and yield signs
   
71.24   Right-of-way with emergency vehicles
   
71.25   Arterial streets
   
71.26   Following distance generally
   
71.27   Following distance with fire apparatus
Speed Limits
   
71.40   Basic rule
   
71.41   Maximum limits
   
71.42   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.43   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.44   Near schools
   
71.45   Electronic speed detectors
Stopping, Turning and Backing
   
71.60   Stopping mandatory
   
71.61   Turning generally; caution when turning
   
71.62   U-turns
   
71.63   Signaling when turning
   
71.64   Backing
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device, any railroad
sign or signal or any part of such a device, sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic-control devices, traffic surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter or
knock down any sign, traffic-control device or traffic-surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county or the city, to
remove any sign, traffic-control device or traffic-surveillance device placed
along a highway for traffic control, warning or informational purposes by
official action of the Department, county or city. It shall be unlawful for any
person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating division (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic-control device or traffic-surveillance device and the cost of
replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the city
restricting traffic for vehicles weighing in excess of ten tons. It shall be
unlawful for any person operating such vehicle to travel on streets other than
those designated for such vehicles, except to travel to and from his or her
personal residence and/or to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise. In
these events, the operator of such vehicle shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the city. The City Council shall
cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating the streets so
designated as restricted routes.
(Prior Code, § 3-102) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 16-209
§ 71.04 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel on any
street or alley located in the city and shall provide for appropriate signs and
markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-133)
§ 71.05 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle, including motorcycles or scooters, shall be driven on any
sidewalk or within any sidewalk space, except on a permanent or temporary
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral possession or cortege except
with the permission of a police officer, or except Police Department or Fire
Department vehicles when responding to emergency calls or orders in their
several departments, ambulances responding to emergency calls or vehicles
carrying United States mail.
(Prior Code, § 3-118) Penalty, see §
71.99
MANNER OF DRIVING
§ 71.20 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction, may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, the driver of a vehicle shall drive
on the right half of the roadway. In passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers
shall give each other at least one-half of the main traveled portion of the
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 3-110)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,131
§ 71.22 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and there
is danger of a collision unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer
stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road or driveway, shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-
of-way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk
or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement
of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic-direction devices.
The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building, private
road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian approaching on
any sidewalk. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a city street from a
private road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on such streets.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,162
§ 71.23 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection, or if no crosswalk is indicated, then at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having
stopped, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has
entered the intersection from another highway or which is approaching so
closely on such highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver
moved across or into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
no crosswalk is indicated, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
After slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such
intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 RIGHT-OF-WAY WITH EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, all vehicles
within one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop,
except if they are on or crossing a street intersection at the time, in which
event, such vehicles shall drive clear of the street intersection and then
stop.
   (B)   Every vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall
immediately move to a position as near the right-hand curb as possible and
remain there until such authorized emergency vehicle has passed; provided, said
vehicle is operated on official business and the driver thereof sounds an
audible signal by bell, siren or whistle.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,114
§ 71.25 ARTERIAL STREETS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and designate arterial
streets within the corporate limits of the city. Unless where otherwise marked
at a particular intersection, a vehicle being operated on an arterial street
shall have the right-of-way over any such other vehicle not being operated on
such street.
(Prior Code, § 3-135)
§ 71.26 FOLLOWING DISTANCE GENERALLY.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 FOLLOWING DISTANCE WITH FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow closer than 500 feet any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where said fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 3-120) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.40 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.41 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.40 of this chapter, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-
6,187; 60-6,188; 60-6,305; and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds
unless reduced pursuant to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless-surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the City Council pursuant to §
71.43 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
division (A) or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the City Council may conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the City Council shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
City Council and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge
or structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages, as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place or part of such highway, which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the City
Council shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits as
the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic investigation,
except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are part of the
state highway system in the city shall be effective without the approval of the
Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph, and there
shall be no limit on the difference between adjacent speed limits for
increasing speed limits along a highway.
   (D)   When the Department or the City Council determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187; 60-
6,305; and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.41 and
71.42 of this chapter and Neb. RS 60-6,187; 60-6,305; and 60-6,313, or set
pursuant to this section, §
71.42 of this chapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the City Council
may restrict the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective
jurisdiction and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.45 ELECTRONIC SPEED DETECTORS.
   (A)   The speed of any motor vehicle within the city may be determined by
the use of radio microwaves or other electronic devices. The results of such
determinations shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
motor vehicle in any court or legal proceeding where the speed of the motor
vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device or had received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device.
   (C)   In the event of an arrest based on such a message, such radio message
must have been dispatched immediately after the speed of the motor vehicle had
been recorded and must include a description of the vehicle and the recorded
speed.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,212
STOPPING, TURNING AND BACKING
§ 71.60 STOPPING MANDATORY.
   (A)   All vehicles, before crossing a sidewalk or emerging from a garage,
alley, gas station or other place, shall come to a complete stop and, after
giving sufficient warning, shall proceed slowly and with extreme caution while
crossing such sidewalk or leaving such garage, alley, gas station or other
place.
   (B)   The term SLOWLY shall be construed to mean such rate of speed as is
reasonable and proper under the circumstances and the condition of the street
and traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,119 to 60-6,121
§ 71.61 TURNING GENERALLY; CAUTION WHEN TURNING.
   (A)   Generally. Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street
shall approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-
hand side of the highway, and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb
as possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach such centerline of the highway, and in turning, shall
pass as near as possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely
as practicable to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
For the purpose of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the
meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (B)   Caution. The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning or
changing the course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make
such movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement,
the operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and
whenever the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement,
he or she shall give some other unmistakable signal to the driver of all other
vehicles of his or her intention to make such movement.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,160 and 60-6,162
§ 71.62 U-TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.63 SIGNALING WHEN TURNING.
   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously
during not less than the last 50 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand and arm
or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of Roads.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,162
§ 71.64 BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given, and while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind. The driver of a parked
vehicle about to back shall give moving vehicles the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 3-111)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum
speed limit established for any highway or freeway as set out in §§
71.40 to 71.45 of this chapter is guilty of a traffic infraction and, upon
conviction, shall be fined:
         (a)   For traveling one to five mph over the authorized speed limit:
$10;
         (b)   For traveling over five mph but not over ten mph over the
authorized speed limit: $25;
         (c)   For traveling over ten mph but not over 15 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $75;
         (d)   For traveling over 15 mph but not over 20 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $125;
         (e)   For traveling over 20 mph but not over 35 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $200; and
         (f)   For traveling over 35 mph over the authorized speed limit: $300.
      (2)   (a)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be
doubled if the violation occurs within a maintenance, repair or construction
zone established pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (B)(2), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
               a.   i.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or
moving signs as being under maintenance, repair or construction;
                  ii.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance,
repair or construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,188; and
                  iii.   Within such portion of a highway where road
construction workers are present.
               b.   The MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair or construction zone has ended.
      (3)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
(Neb. RS 60-682.01)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   Roadways outside business or residential district
   
72.03   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.04   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.05   Intersections
   
72.06   Alleys
   
72.07   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
72.08   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.09   Current registration
   
72.10   Time limits
   
72.11   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.12   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.13   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
72.14   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.15   Painting of curbs
   
72.16   Loading zones designated
Congested District
   
72.30   Designation
   
72.31   Congested area requirements
   
72.32   Congested area unloading
Handicapped or Disabled Parking
   
72.45   Definitions
   
72.46   Designation of on-street parking spaces; permit display
   
72.47   Designation of off-street parking spaces
   
72.48   Parking permit issuance
   
72.49   Motor vehicle permit issuance
   
72.50   Permit contents; duplicate permits
   
72.51   Permit term; renewal
   
72.52   Permit nontransferable; suspension for violation
   
72.53   Removal of unauthorized vehicles
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.65   Tickets
   
72.66   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the City Council regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or
parking all vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or
a portion of a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject
to such regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than
a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 ROADWAYS OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park or leave such vehicle off such
part of a highway, but in any event, an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer, except
that when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop or stand on
the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and projecting
parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in no event
shall such parking, standing or stopping upon the shoulder of a freeway exceed
12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, Fire Department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance or authorized Department of
Transportation or local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any
vehicle upon any bridge, highway or structure which is located above or below
or crosses over or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road
thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D)
above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic-control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing for any purpose near the
intersection of curb lines where said curb lines are painted yellow to indicate
such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-314)
(Ord. 428, passed 3-26-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible, and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district, except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to a
breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
city. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked or left standing upon any street, alley, public way
or public property shall have license plates attached thereto which are issued
for such vehicle and are registered in the name of the owner of the vehicle in
accordance with the laws of the state or of the state wherein the license was
issued. If any vehicle is found upon any street or alley in violation of any of
the provisions of this title regulating the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or
person in whose name such vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie
responsible for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-321)
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 72.10 TIME LIMITS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a time limit
for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street or district, and the
parking and stopping time of any vehicle in any such street or district for a
period of time longer than that fixed in the authorized rules and regulations
by the Council shall constitute a violation of this chapter. In addition, each
period of time that any vehicle shall remain in any parking space beyond the
period of time prescribed for such parking space shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-319)
§ 72.11 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of assisting the city in the proper removal of snow
during or immediately after a snowfall of at least two inches, the city hereby
adopts the following Snow Emergency Plan.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall attempt to plow all city streets within 24 hours
of a snowfall of two inches or more. The city’s Snow Emergency Plan shall
consist of three levels:
         (a)   Level 1: Snow accumulations of two inches to ten inches;
         (b)   Level 2: Snow forecasts or accumulations of 11 inches to 18
inches; and
         (c)   Level 3: Snow forecasts or accumulations of 19 inches or more.
      (2)   Snow accumulations of less than two inches will be handled by the
material spreader truck.
   (C)   (1)   When snow accumulations reach two inches or more, plowing is
initiated on the streets following the Snow Route System. The Snow Route System
consists of three categories:
         (a)   Priority 1: Central Business District, Commercial District and
State Spur 26E;
         (b)   Priority 2: All residential streets, beginning with east/west
directional streets followed by north/south directional streets; and
         (c)   Priority 3: Alleys.
      (2)   If it continues to snow, crews may be required to stay on the
Priority 1 and 2 streets until the snowfall stops.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the parking terms, conditions or
provisions of this section shall be fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted
by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s (24 hours)
maintenance of any of the parking prohibitions contained herein shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 411, passed 3-28-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Snow emergency parking schedule, see
Chapter 74, Schedule I
§ 72.12 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   (1)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked
parallel to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized
traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand
curb or edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the
left-hand curb or edge of such roadway.
      (2)   Persons shall leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway,
except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position so as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an overall length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition and removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   Schools, theaters, stations. The City Council may, by resolution,
prohibit the parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on streets directly in
front of any entrance to a school house, school building, fire station or
theater and such curbs adjacent to the entrance of said school house, school
building fire station or theater shall be painted red or yellow to indicate
such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-313)
   (B)   Fire hydrants. The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a
fire hydrant shall be painted red, or another color specified by the City
Council, to indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (C)   Duty to paint, mark. It shall be the duty of the City Council or its
agent to cause curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as
provided in this chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or
designating of portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited
or limited shall be done only by the city through its proper officers and at
the direction of the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any
highway or in any manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of
vehicles in, any highway or part thereof, except at such places where the
parking of vehicles is prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a
resolution adopted by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 LOADING ZONES DESIGNATED.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate loading zones and parking
times therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
CONGESTED DISTRICT
§ 72.30 DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, create and designate a portion of the
city to be known as a “congested district.” This shall be that part of the city
in which there are special traffic control problems because of the high volume
of traffic within the area.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
§ 72.31 CONGESTED AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street or portion thereof
within a congested district where any vehicle shall be parked parallel with and
adjacent to the curb so as to have both right wheels within six inches of the
curb, or where a vehicle shall be parked at an angle so as to have the right
front wheel of such vehicle at the curb. Where stalls are designated either on
the curb or pavement in the congested district, vehicles shall be parked within
such stalls.
(Prior Code, § 3-306) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 CONGESTED AREA UNLOADING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an
overall length of more than 20 feet to stop, park or unload any such vehicle on
a street which the City Council has designated to be within a congested
district unless loading or unloading in an alley is impossible, and then, said
vehicles may stop, stand or unload for a maximum time of 30 minutes, but only
after the operator of said truck has obtained written permission from the city
police to do so.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, regardless of
length, to park said vehicle within a street or intersection, on a crosswalk,
in front of a private driveway or on a sidewalk.
   (B)   The City Council may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas
adjoining or adjacent to the congested district, and when such parking areas
are provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to use such parking
areas for all parking purposes. No trucks, including oil tankers, shall park or
stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
congested district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business, except in the area or areas
provided for by the City Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-307) Penalty, see §
72.99
HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING
§ 72.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assisting device; any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems; and any individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all
the use of one or more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this chapter
regulating the use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such a manner for
not longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 3-324)
§ 72.46 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; PERMIT DISPLAY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate parking spaces for the exclusive
use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,114 or issued by another state;
         (b)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the City Council, whose
vehicles display the identification specified in §
72.50 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the City Council,
which display such identification.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed in the operator’s area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle’s dashboard, or its equivalent, so as to
be clearly visible through the front windshield.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by a sign which is in conformance with the nineteenth edition of the
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by
the Federal Highway Administration. In addition to such sign, the space may
also be indicated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the
street adjacent to the space.
(Prior Code, § 3-322) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.47 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   The City Council and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of the vehicles of handicapped or disabled persons or other
vehicles as described in §
72.46 of this chapter. Such designations shall be made by posting immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance
with the nineteenth edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices
for Streets and Highways.
(Prior Code, § 3-323) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.48 PARKING PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any handicapped,
disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled person, or his or her parent,
legal guardian or foster parents, for a permit which will entitle the holder
thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting
such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this subchapter. Persons
applying for a permit shall complete such forms as are provided to the City
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the City Clerk that he or she is handicapped or disabled. The
City Clerk may require medical certificates and proof of a handicap or
disability.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit to each approved applicant, and
before issuing such permit shall enter all information required pursuant to §
72.50 of this chapter. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of each person receiving a permit
pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-325)
§ 72.49 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof, or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, to park in those spaces
provided by this section. Such parking permit shall be issued only when the
motor vehicle for which it is issued will be used primarily for the
transportation of permanently or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
   (B)   Persons applying for permits pursuant to this section shall apply for
a permit for each motor vehicle used for the transportation of permanently or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are
provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the City
Clerk that each such motor vehicle will be used primarily for the
transportation of permanently or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit to each approved applicant, and
before issuing such permit shall enter all information required pursuant to §
72.50 of this chapter. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address and license number of each person receiving a permit
pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-326)
§ 72.50 PERMIT CONTENTS; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit to be issued by the City Clerk shall be a card four inches
by four inches in size, constructed so that it may be easily and conspicuously
displayed from a vehicle’s rearview mirror and on which is prominently
displayed the date of expiration, the internationally accepted wheelchair
symbol, which symbol is a representation of a person seated in a wheelchair
surrounded by a border six units wide by seven units high, and an identifying
number on the front of the card.
   (B)   The color of the permit issued to handicapped or disabled persons or
for the transportation of such persons shall be white on blue. The permit
issued to temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or for the transportation
of such persons shall be a special distinguishing color as determined by the
Department of Motor Vehicles. The name, address, phone number, date of birth
and age of the handicapped or disabled or temporarily handicapped or disabled
person to whom issued shall appear on the reverse side. The name, address and
phone number of the party to whom issued and the license plate number of the
motor vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear on the reverse side
of the permit if such permit is issued for a motor vehicle used primarily for
the transportation of permanently or temporarily handicapped or disabled
persons.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person for any motor vehicle if any
prior permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.52 of this chapter.
   (D)   A duplicate permit may be provided by the City Clerk without cost if
the original permit is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall
be valid for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was
issued.
(Prior Code, § 3-327)
§ 72.51 PERMIT TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   All permits authorized under this section for handicapped or disabled
parking shall be issued for a period ending January 1 of the third year
following the date of issuance.
   (B)   All temporarily handicapped or disabled parking permits authorized
under this section shall be issued for a period ending 90 days from the date of
issuance but may be renewed for up to three additional 90-day periods. For each
additional 90-day renewal period, an additional application shall be submitted
with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Prior Code, § 3-328) (Ord. 288, passed 12-5-2001)
§ 72.52 PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE; SUSPENSION FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this section shall not be transferable and shall
be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which
issued, and only for the purpose for which it is issued.
   (B)   Use by any other person, for any other motor vehicle or for any other
purpose shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six
months. At the expiration of such period, a suspended permit may be renewed.
(Prior Code, § 3-329)
§ 72.53 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the police or Sheriff’s Department, or the city, or
provider of on-street parking or ownership or operation of an off-street
parking facility, may cause the removal of any vehicles not displaying proper
identification or the distinguishing license plates specified in this
subchapter from a stall or space designated exclusively for permanently or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons if there is posted immediately
adjacent to and visible from such stall or other space a sign which clearly and
conspicuously states the area so designated as a handicap zone.
   (B)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall inform the city of
a violation of this section prior to taking any action pursuant to this
section.
(Prior Code, § 3-330) Penalty, see §
72.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.65 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of nonmoving traffic regulations contained
in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 72.66 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space which has been
designated exclusively for permanently or temporarily handicapped or disabled
persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of such persons, or in any so
exclusively designated parking space in any off-street parking facility,
without properly displaying the proper identification or when the handicapped
or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or permit is issued is
not being transported as set out in §§
72.45 to
72.53 of this chapter shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as
defined in §
72.45 of this chapter and shall be subject to the penalties and procedures set
forth in this chapter and §
70.99 of this code. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in
violation of §§
72.45 to
72.53 of this chapter cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in
this chapter and §
70.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-330)
Cross-reference:
   Parking violation fines, see
Chapter 37
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Toy Vehicles
   
73.01   Bicycle operation requirements
   
73.02   Clinging to motor vehicles
Minibikes and Miniature Vehicles
   
73.15   Unlawful operation on streets or highways
   
73.16   Traffic laws inapplicable to minibikes
   
73.17   Three- and four-wheeler operation prohibited; exception
Snowmobiles
   
73.30   Equipment requirements; laws applicable
   
73.31   Unlawful acts
   
73.32   Night operation
   
73.33   Operation on public lands
   
73.34   Enforcement
All-Terrain, Utility-Type and Golf Car Vehicles
   
73.45   Definitions
   
73.46   Operation requirements
   
73.47   Traffic regulations applicable
   
73.48   Permits; inspections; fees; term
   
73.49   Revocation of permit
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES AND TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.01 BICYCLE OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this village with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or other public highway
from sunset to sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for
not less than 500 feet on a clear night, and a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100
feet and 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of
headlights on a motor vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear may be used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file, except on parts of streets or highways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable, except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
   (H)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Business
District.
(Prior Code, § 3-401) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon
any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer
or permit any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled,
skis or toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or his or her
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to such vehicle so
driven and operated by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-402) Penalty, see §
73.99
MINIBIKES AND MINIATURE VEHICLES
§ 73.15 UNLAWFUL OPERATION ON STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minibike or similar two-, three- or four-
wheeled miniature vehicle whose visibility, power and equipment are inadequate
for mixing with normal vehicular traffic upon the streets and highways to be
operated on any such street or highway.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheeled
motor vehicle which has a total wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches,
an engine rated capacity of less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or a
seat height less than 25 inches from the ground; or any other two-wheeled motor
vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 3-501) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE TO MINIBIKES.
   The provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 60, Articles 1, 3, 4 and 5 shall not be
applicable to the owners and operators of any minibike.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)
§ 73.17 THREE- AND FOUR-WHEELER OPERATION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a three-
wheeler or four-wheeler, either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated
within the city limits.
   (B)   Exception. Any person may operate a three-wheeler or four-wheeler
within the city limits for the purpose of snow removal or for the purpose of
responding to a bona fide emergency.
(Ord. 310, passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.30 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS; LAWS APPLICABLE.
   Every snowmobile operated within the city shall be registered with the state
as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public street or
highway unless it is equipped with at least one headlight, one taillight,
reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on each side
forward of the handlebars and with brakes as prescribed by the Department of
Motor Vehicles. All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles
shall apply to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and
those which, by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 3-503) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the city or on the Ponca Lewis and Clark
Trail, unless said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger persons
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; or
   (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained the permission of
the owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 3-504) (Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.32 NIGHT OPERATION.
   The operation of a snowmobile within the corporate limits of the city shall
be deemed a nuisance at any time after sundown or before 7:00 a.m. of any day
unless it is being operated in response to an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3-505) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 OPERATION ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles may be operated upon public lands owned by the city; provided,
such operation is done in a manner which does not endanger others using the
lands and the snow covering the land is of such depth and consistency so as to
make reasonably certain that vegetation will not be destroyed or damaged by
such operation.
(Prior Code, § 3-506) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer, including a conservation officer, may enforce the
provisions relating to snowmobiles.
(Prior Code, § 3-507) Penalty, see §
73.99
ALL-TERRAIN, UTILITY-TYPE AND GOLF CAR VEHICLES
§ 73.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a weight of 900 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires;
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
      (5)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator; and
      (6)   Has handle bars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   GOLF CAR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level-ground speed of less than 20 mph, has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200
pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds, has a maximum
passenger capacity of not more than four persons, is designed and manufactured
for operation on a golf course, for sporting and recreational purposes, and is
not being operated within the boundaries of a golf course.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for the purpose of vehicular
travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not less than 48 inches or more than 74 inches in width;
         (b)   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than 2,000
pounds;
         (d)   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
         (e)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench- or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side by side.
      (2)   Riding lawnmowers and motorized wheelchairs are not UTILITY-TYPE
VEHICLES as defined in this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
(Ord. 424, passed 1-29-2018) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.46 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf car vehicle may
be operated on streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city
only if the operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle, utility-type vehicle or golf car vehicle may
be operated only between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be
operated at a speed in excess of 25 mph. When operating an all-terrain vehicle,
utility-type vehicle or golf car vehicle as authorized in this division (B),
the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be
equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above
ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
Day-Glo in color.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual
physical control of, any all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle upon the
travel portion of any public roadway within the corporate limits of the city
except as specifically authorized and permitted under the terms of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Any person operating an all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle
as authorized in division (B) above shall have:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator’s license, or a farm permit as provided in
Neb. RS 60-4,126, and be 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   A permit issued by the City Clerk permitting operation within the
corporate limits of the city; and
      (3)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain, utility-type or
golf car vehicle while operating such vehicle on a street or highway. The
person operating the all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle shall
provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer when requested.
   (E)   An all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle may be operated
without complying with divisions (A) and (D) above on streets and highways in
parades which have been authorized by the state or any department, board,
commission or political subdivision of the state, and may be operated within
the city for the purpose of snow removal or for the purpose of responding to a
bona fide emergency.
   (F)   An all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. Divisions (A) to (E) above and (G) below
authorize and apply to the operation of an all-terrain, utility-type or golf
car vehicle only on a street or highway other than a controlled-access highway
with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (G)   Subject to division (F) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by an all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle without
complying with divisions (A) and (F) above only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 424, passed 1-29-2018) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356
§ 73.47 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   The operator of an all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle within the
corporate limits of the city shall comply with, and is subject to, all traffic
regulations of the city and of the state, including, but not limited to, those
laws, ordinances or regulations pertaining to the operation or being in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
liquor or any drug. When making turns within the roadways and at intersections,
the operator shall use the appropriate hand signals as designated by the
state’s Rules of the Road.
(Ord. 424, passed 1-29-2018) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.48 PERMITS; INSPECTIONS; FEES; TERM.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to operate an all-terrain, utility-type or
golf car vehicle within the corporate limits of the city, an applicant must
make an annual application therefor at the office of the City Clerk and provide
the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Proof of insurance for the all-terrain, utility type or golf car
vehicle to be operated within the city by the applicant;
      (3)   Valid Class O operator’s license issued by the state; and
      (4)   Year, make, model, color, engine size and vehicle identification
number (VIN) of the vehicle to be operated within the city by the applicant.
   (B)   In addition, the all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle must
pass inspection by the Chief of Police or other person designated by the city
to ensure that the vehicle meets the following requirements:
      (1)   At least one working headlight and taillight;
      (2)   A working brake light;
      (3)   At least one rearview mirror;
      (4)   A working seatbelt on utility-type vehicles;
      (5)   A bicycle safety flag in compliance with §
73.46 of this chapter;
      (6)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
      (7)   A muffler system in good working condition, properly attached to
the all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle, which reduces the noise of
operation of the motor to a minimum necessary for operation. The muffler shall
not be audible for a distance of more than 500 feet. No person shall use a
muffler cutout, bypass, straight pipe or similar device on any all-terrain,
utility-type or golf car vehicle;
      (8)   A United States Forest Service-qualified spark arrester; and
      (9)   A working horn.
   (C)   Upon compliance with §§
73.45 and
73.46 of this chapter and payment of an application fee of $25, which fee may
be amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council, the City Clerk
shall issue the applicant a permit to operate the designated vehicle within the
corporate limits of the city along with two permit stickers to attach to the
vehicle.
   (D)   Permits to operate the designated vehicle shall be valid from the date
of issuance until midnight on December 31 of the year for which the permit is
issued.
   (E)   The permit stickers shall be prominently displayed on the front or
rear fender or similar component of the operator’s all-terrain, utility-type or
golf car vehicle.
(Ord. 424, passed 1-29-2018) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.49 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Violations of these provisions shall be punishable as set forth in §
73.99 of this chapter. In addition, any person receiving two or more citations
within a 12-month period shall, upon conviction of the second or subsequent
offense, have his or her permit to operate an all-terrain, utility-type or golf
car vehicle within the city limits revoked for a period of one year from the
date of conviction.
   (B)   Upon completion of the revocation period, said person must reapply for
a permit in order to operate an all-terrain, utility-type or golf car vehicle
within the city limits.
(Ord. 424, passed 1-29-2018) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person or individual who shall violate the provisions of §
73.17 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance, together with the court costs.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating any rule or regulation dealing with
snowmobiles as set out in §§
73.30 to
73.34 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 3-507)
   (D)   The operator of any snowmobile violating §
73.32 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-505)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
73.45 to 73.49 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for the
violation of a municipal ordinance, together with the court costs.
(Ord. 310, passed 6-28-2004; Ord. 424, passed 1-29-2018)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Snow emergency parking
      
II.   Speed zones
      
III.   Stop and yield intersections
      
IV.   Caution and warning signs
SCHEDULE I. SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING.
   (A)   Level 1 snow emergencies.
      (1)   During a Level 1 snow emergency, the following parking shall be
prohibited as follows.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to park on Third Street and Fourth Street
from Nebraska Street to East Street during the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to park on East Street, Union Street and
Nebraska Street between Third Street and Fourth Street during the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   These hours shall be in effect from October 1 to May 1 of each
calendar year.
      (3)   The city shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs
indicating such prohibitions.
      (4)   All vehicles parked on residential streets must be removed within
eight hours until the snow is removed from said streets; vehicles remaining on
residential streets in excess of eight hours shall be considered to be
unlawfully parked.
   (B)   Level 2 snow emergencies. During a Level 2 snow emergency, the
following actions will be taken and parking shall be prohibited as follows.
      (1)   A Level 2 snow emergency notification will be posted on the city’s
electronic sign.
      (2)   A Level 2 snow emergency notification will be broadcast on the
closing/delay banner of a local TV station.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to park on any Priority 1 or Priority 2 street
until they have been cleared of snow.
      (4)   All vehicles parked on a Priority 1 or Priority 2 street must be
moved within eight hours of the Level 2 snow emergency declaration; any vehicle
parked in excess of eight hours shall be considered to be unlawfully parked.
      (5)   (a)   All snow piles will be moved to four designated locations
after all streets have been cleared of snow.
         (b)   The designated locations are as follows:
            1.   East end of Fourth Street;
            2.   East end of Third Street;
            3.   Parking lot of Chief Standing Bear City Park; and
            4.   City Mixing Plant.
   (C)   Level 3 snow emergencies. During a Level 3 snow emergency, the
following actions will be taken and parking shall be prohibited as follows:
      (1)   A Level 3 snow emergency notification will be posted on the city’s
electronic sign.
      (2)   A Level 3 snow emergency notification will be broadcast on the
closing/delay banner of a local TV station.
      (3)   A “No Travel Advised” notification will also be posted with the two
previously stated notifications.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to park on any Priority 1 or Priority 2 street
until they have been cleared of snow.
      (5)   All vehicles parked on a Priority 1 or Priority 2 street must be
moved within eight hours of the Level 3 snow emergency declaration or shall be
considered to be unlawfully parked.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on a
Priority 1 or Priority 2 street to allow such vehicle to become stalled or
stuck for any reason.
         (a)   Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled or stuck for any
reason, the person operating such motor vehicle shall take immediate action to
have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway onto the nearest Priority 3
street or other appropriate location.
         (b)   No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the
roadway of a Priority 1 or Priority 2 street except for the purposes of
securing assistance in removal of the vehicle.
         (c)   Any city police officer or other peace officer is hereby
authorized to remove or have removed a vehicle which is parked, stalled or
abandoned on any Priority 1 or Priority 2 street where the operator cannot be
promptly located or the vehicle is interfering with snow removal operations.
         (d)   The police officer may cause the vehicle to be removed to a
private lot or other facility, and such vehicle shall not be released therefrom
except upon payment by the owner of all costs in connection with the removal,
storage and towing of the vehicle.
      (7)   (a)   All snow piles will be removed to four designated locations
after all streets have been cleared of snow.
         (b)   The designated locations are as follows:
            1.   East end of Fourth Street;
            2.   East end of Third Street;
            3.   Parking lot of Chief Standing Bear City Park; and
            4.   City Mixing Plant.
      (8)   Snow that is within five feet of any fire hydrant will be moved
once all city streets have been cleared of snow.
      (9)   The Mayor may elect to call an emergency City Council meeting to
determine if assistance is needed in snow removal.
   (D)   Violations. Any person who shall violate any of the parking terms,
conditions or provisions of this schedule shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s
(24 hours) maintenance of any of the parking prohibitions contained herein
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 411, passed 3-28-2016) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Snow emergency levels; street priority categories, see §
72.11
SCHEDULE II. SPEED ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a public street or alley
within the city at a greater speed than is reasonable and prudent under the
existing conditions.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the city limits at a
speed greater than 25 mph in any residential district or 25 mph in any business
district, except the following speed limits shall be applicable on Highway 12:
50 mph from the south corporate limits of the city to the west corporate limits
of the city; and except the following speed limits shall be applicable on Spur
26E: 25 mph from the intersection of Highway 12 and Spur 26E to the
intersection of Third Street and Union Street; and 30 mph from the intersection
of Third Street and Union Street to the intersection of Union Street and Bluff
Street; and 35 mph from the intersection of Union Street and Bluff Street to
the north corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) (Ord. 320, passed 1-27-2005) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Location Type of Sign
Location                                                         Type of Sign
East section of the Second Street and Iowa Street intersection   Stop
North intersection of Court Street and Bluff Street              Yield
North intersection of Court Street and Second Street             Stop
North section of the Fourth Street and Ponca Street intersection Stop
North section of the Fourth Street and Union Street intersection Stop
Northeast corner of the East Street and East Third Street        Stop
intersection
South section of the First Street and East Street intersection   Stop
South section of the Fourth Street and Ponca Street intersection Stop
West section of the Second Street and Iowa Street intersection   Stop
 
(Res. 2011-06, passed 10-24-2011; Res. 2016-11, passed 10-24-2016; Res. 2016-
12, passed 10-24-2016; Res. 2017-03, passed 3-27-2017; Res. 2017-12, passed 9-
25-2017; Res. 2022-03, passed 4-27-2022)
SCHEDULE IV. CAUTION AND WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   “Dead End” signs. A “Dead End” sign shall be placed or installed at
the following locations:
      (1)   On Bluff Street east of Iowa Street;
      (2)   On Esther Street north of Nebraska Street;
      (3)   On Esther Street south of Nebraska Street;
      (4)   On Ponca Street north of First Street;
      (5)   On Second Street East of East Street;
      (6)   On Third Street East of East Street;
      (7)   On Vine Street west of First Street; and
      (8)   On Washington Street north of Bluff Street.
   (B)   “Hill” signs.
      (1)   A “Hill” sign (W7-1) with the advisory plaque (W7-3P) shall be
placed on Rock Street and for eastbound traffic shall indicate a 20 percent
grade, and for westbound traffic shall indicate a 14 percent grade. The “Hill”
sign should be posted at least 80 feet from the crest of the hill.
      (2)   A “Hill Blocks View” sign (W7-6) shall have a posted speed limit of
15 mph for both directions, and such signs shall be posted at least 155 feet
from the crest of the hill.
(Res. 2014-02, passed 2-27-2014; Res. 2015-07, passed 10-26-2015; Res. 2015-08,
passed 12-21-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   ANIMALS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks, Trails and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
   
90.03   Motor vehicles prohibited on Lewis and Clark Trail
Library
   
90.15   Operation and funding
   
90.16   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.17   Grounds and building
   
90.18   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
90.19   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.20   Cost of use
   
90.21   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.22   Annual report
   
90.23   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.24   Donations
   
90.25   Book management generally
   
90.26   Book register; retention and renewal
   
90.27   Damaged or lost books
   
90.28   Improper book removal
   
90.29   Collection of fees and the like
Private Swimming Pool
   
90.40   Installation
   
90.41   Definition
   
90.42   Permit required
   
90.43   Construction requirements
   
90.44   Fence
   
90.45   Electrical requirements
   
90.46   Adverse impact prohibited
   
90.47   Maintenance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
PARKS, TRAILS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Mayor and City Council may
each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the City
Treasury and shall constitute the park and recreation fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the park fund or park and recreation fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate, and the City Council or Park Board shall have power to
enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and to
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons or corporation leasing the same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances, and the police
power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 to 17-952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.03 MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON LEWIS AND CLARK TRAIL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or individual to operate or park a
motorized vehicle on, over or across any portion of the Ponca Lewis and Clark
Trail or to obstruct the trail in any manner whatsoever. The city shall cause
notices to be posted or shall erect signs indicating such prohibition.
   (B)   (1)   Designated city officials or employees may operate motorized
vehicles on, over or across the Trail for the purpose of maintaining the same
or to provide emergency services.
      (2)   Persons or individuals and their invitees may operate a motorized
vehicle across the Trail at designated locations in order to access or provide
ingress and egress to their homes and property, but shall not operate a
motorized vehicle on, over or across said trail for any other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-142) (Ord. 307, passed 1-29-2004) Penalty, see §
90.99
LIBRARY
§ 90.15 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the library through the Library Board. The City
Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, purchases,
improvements and maintenance of the library, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the city that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Library Fund and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the library. Such fund shall at all times be in the
custody of the City Treasurer. The Library Board shall have the power and
authority to appoint the librarian and to hire such other employees as it may
deem necessary and may pass such other rules and regulations for the operation
of the library as may be proper for its efficient operation.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
§ 90.16 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 to 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building and of the supervision, care and
custody of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for
that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library and appoint a suitable Librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, for failure to
return any book or for violation of any bylaw, rule or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.17 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for a
library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 to 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 90.18 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library, upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made, the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published
or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If,
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a remonstrance
against the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting
at the last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the
property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date
for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.19 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The Chairperson of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the Chairperson on
any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board. The
Chairperson and Secretary, in like manner upon resolution duly passed and
adopted by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.20 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established for the
government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Includes, but are not limited to, free loan of
circulating print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general
reference and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Includes, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.21 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the Chairperson and Secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.23 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney fees may be recovered in a civil action
before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in the name
of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney fees,
collected in such actions shall be placed in the Treasury of the city to the
credit of the Library Fund. Attorney fees collected pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the Treasury of the city and credited to the budget of the
City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.24 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.25 BOOK MANAGEMENT GENERALLY.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or duplicate books in the library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or
duplicate books so disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
§ 90.26 BOOK REGISTER; RETENTION AND RENEWAL.
   The librarian shall keep or cause to be kept a register of all books issued
and returned at the time they shall be so issued and returned. None of the
books shall be retained more than 14 days without being renewed. No book may be
renewed more than two consecutive times by any person without the special
permission of the librarian or an authorized employee of the library.
(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
§ 90.27 DAMAGED OR LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the library
shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement cost and penalty which the Library Board may
assess.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005)
§ 90.28 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 COLLECTION OF FEES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All fees, penalties and forfeitures may be collected in civil action
in the event of failure, neglect or refusal to pay said assessments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
   (B)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
(Prior Code, § 1-1007)
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL
§ 90.40 INSTALLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or enlarge a
residential swimming pool not enclosed in a permanent building in the city and
within its zoning jurisdiction except in accordance with the regulations of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any depression in the ground, either temporary or permanent,
or a container of water, either temporary or permanent, and either above or
below the ground in which water more than 24 inches in depth is contained and
which is used primarily for the purpose of bathing and swimming. Hot tubs which
have a cover that is locked or secured in place are exempt.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024)
§ 90.42 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, enlarge or alter
any private swimming pool unless a swimming pool permit has first been obtained
from the Land Use Administrator. Applications shall be on forms provided by the
Land Use Administrator and shall be accompanied by plans drawn to scale showing
the following:
   (A)   Pool dimensions;
   (B)   Location and type of waste disposal system;
   (C)   Location of pool on lot, distance from lot lines and distance from
structure; and
   (D)   Fencing or landscaping plan, or a combination of both.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.43 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   No swimming pool shall be located, erected, constructed or maintained closer
to any side or rear lot line than allowed by the Zoning Code for permitted
accessory building uses, and in no case shall the water line of any pool be
less than four feet from any lot line. No direct or indirect connection shall
be made to the city sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.44 FENCE.
   (A)   Swimming pools within the scope of this section or not enclosed within
a permanent building shall be completely enclosed by a fence of sufficient
strength to prevent access to the pool and shall be not less than 48 inches in
height, so constructed as not to have voids, holes or openings larger than four
inches in one dimension. Gates or doors shall be equipped with self-closing and
self-latching devices for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times
when not in actual use.
   (B)   Aboveground pools with self-providing fencing to prevent unguarded
entry will be allowed without separate additional fencing; provided the self-
providing fence is a minimum of 24 inches in height. A side wall of a pool
shall not be considered a barrier on its own.
   (C)   Permanent access from the grade to aboveground pools having stationary
ladders, stairs or ramps shall have not less than equal safeguard fencing and
gates.
   (D)   No fence shall be located, erected, constructed or maintained closer
to a pool than three feet unless a self-providing fence is being used.
   (E)   The wall of a house or building facing a pool may be incorporated as a
portion of such fence; providing that doors and other such openings are
designed to be self-closing and self-latching.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.45 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electrical installations provided for, installed and used in
conjunction with a private swimming pool shall be in conformance with the state
laws and city ordinances regulating electrical installations.
   (B)   If overhead floodlights or other artificial lights are used to
illuminate the pool at night, such lights shall be shielded to direct light
only on the pool.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024)
§ 90.46 ADVERSE IMPACT PROHIBITED.
   No swimming pool shall be so operated or maintained as to create a nuisance,
a hazard, an eyesore or otherwise to result in a substantial adverse effect on
neighboring properties, or to be in any way detrimental to public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.47 MAINTENANCE.
   A swimming pool shall be maintained in a sanitary manner. The Health Board
or other authorized city personnel may inspect or cause to be inspected each
private swimming pool maintained in the city.
(Ord. 475, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person or individual who shall violate the provisions of §
90.03(A) of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance, together with the costs of the action.
(Prior Code, § 3-142)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.40 through
90.47 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in a sum of up to $500 for each violation. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such
failure to comply.
(Ord. 307, passed 1-29-2004; Ord. 475, passed - -2024)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   State health rules incorporated by reference
   
91.03   Enforcement official
   
91.04   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
91.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
91.19   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
91.20   Garbage and refuse
   
91.21   Deposit or accumulation of detrimental or offensive substances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02 STATE HEALTH RULES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   Three copies of the Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health,
published by the state’s Department of Health, as revised, adopted and
promulgated in pamphlet form, are hereby incorporated by reference insofar as
the same are applicable to cities, and they shall be incorporated herein the
same as though copied at full length in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-803)
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as the
Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief Health Officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine Officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.04 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the city;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   Any odorous, decaying, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat,
hides, skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead
animal, fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or vermin, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rears of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Health Officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the Health Officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire or metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old non-licensed motor vehicles or parts thereof or any other
waste materials when any of said articles or materials create a condition in
which flies or vermin may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or
which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the vicinity
thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure, or any building or
structure begun and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or other
structures are either a fire hazard or a menace to the public health or safety
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junkyards or dumping grounds or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or vehicles
and machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked
or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or vehicles and machinery of any
kind or of any of the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any
machinery or equipment used by contractors or builders or by other persons,
which said places are kept or maintained so as to essentially interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others, or which are so
unsightly as to tend to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Vehicles licensed or not currently licensed which are partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded; provided, this section
shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (11)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (12)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animals or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined or said premises
on which said vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and kept in such a
manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (13)   Weed or grass growth that is more than 12 inches in height. WEEDS
shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed, puncture vine, leafy spurge,
Canada thistle, perennial peppergrass, Russian knapweed, Johnson grass, nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass, perennial sow thistle, horse nettle, bull
thistle, buckthorn, hemp plant and ragweed; and
      (14)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Ord. 426, passed 4-30-2018; Ord. 439, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Abatement.
      (1)   Whenever a law enforcement officer, code enforcement officer or
other designee of the City Council determines a nuisance is being maintained
within the city, he or she shall cause written notice to be served upon the
owner of the premises on which such nuisance is located, and further, upon the
occupant thereof, by certified mail or by personal service. The notice shall
state the type of nuisance located on the premises and shall provide that such
nuisance shall be abated or removed within 15 calendar days of receipt of the
notice, except the notice shall state that such nuisance shall be abated or
removed within five calendar days of receipt of the notice when the nuisance
pertains to weeds or grass.
      (2)   In all nuisance abatement actions, if notice by certified mail or
personal service is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the
notice on the premises upon which the nuisance is to be abated or removed.
Within five calendar days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, if the owner or occupant of the premises does
not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance by the applicable deadline, the city may have such work
done and assess the cost of such work against the property involved or recover
such costs in a civil action, provided, however, the owner or occupant shall
request a hearing within three calendar days when the nuisance pertains to
weeds or grass. Any request for hearing shall be made in writing and received
in the office of the City Clerk by the date it is due.
   (B)   Cost of removal.
      (1)   If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance within 15 days from
receipt of the notice to abate, or in the case of a nuisance involving weeds or
grass, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance within five days from receipt of the
notice to abate, the city may have such work done, and the cost and expense of
such work shall be paid by the owner of the property. If unpaid for two months
after such work is done, the city may either levy and assess the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in the same
manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed or
recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work.
(Prior Code, § 2-604)
      (2)   Whenever the city is required or chooses to have the work done
necessary to remove or abate any nuisance, the city shall charge $125 per hour,
with a two-hour minimum, for the city staff to perform such work necessary to
accomplish the same.
   (C)   Notice by publication. In all nuisance abatement actions, if notice by
personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance
is to be abated or removed. Within 15 days after receipt of such notice or
publication or posting, whichever is applicable, if the owner or occupant of
the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with the city or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have such
work done and assess the cost of such work against the property involved or
recover such costs in a civil action.
(Prior Code, § 2-605)
(Ord. 292, passed 7-31-2002; Ord. 325, passed 1-27-2005; Res. 2010-04, passed
7-26-2010; Ord. 449, passed 8-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 91.17 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
§ 91.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision
to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of
the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If
the appeal fails, the city may have the work done to abate and remove the dead
or diseased trees. If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does
not request a hearing with the city within five days after receipt of such
notice or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
city may have such work done. The city may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted as a special assessment.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the city or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The
provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such nuisances. For the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the city police shall
have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect the trees thereon.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city or
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece of
ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or
more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the city or within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction is
prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
on any lot or piece of ground within the city or within its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys, or to litter or
cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The city
shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by first-
class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant of the lot
or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision
to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the
City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within 14 days after the
filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or appointed officer
as designated in the ordinance. The hearing officer shall render a decision on
the appeal within five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If
the appeal fails, the city may have such work done. Within five days after
receipt of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground
does not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation, except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away, or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city shall
remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the city shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service,
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division (B)
above, if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
the lot or land.
(Neb. RS 18-1752)
§ 91.21 DEPOSIT OR ACCUMULATION OF DETRIMENTAL OR OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, or permit the deposit or
accumulation of, any garbage, refuse of any kind or article or thing which is
detrimental to health or from which obnoxious or offensive odors arise on the
streets, alleys or public grounds or on any private premises, including
enclosures in which livestock is kept within said city.
(Prior Code, § 1-804) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of the foregoing
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not
to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
Each day’s maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
   (B)   In the event the owner or occupant of a premises as set out in §
91.16 of this chapter fails to correct and eliminate the nuisance pursuant to
the notice delivered, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day’s
violation after the expiration of the 15-day period shall constitute a separate
offense. In the case of a nuisance involving weeds or grass, each day’s
violation after expiration of the five-day period shall be a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
91.21 of this chapter and shall fail to remove such objectionable substances or
otherwise comply with the orders of the Board of Health with reference thereto
within 24 hours from the receipt of written notice thereof, upon conviction,
shall be fined not more than that amount permitted by state law for violation
of a municipal ordinance and the offensive matter removed by or at the expense
of the defendant. Each 24-hour failure to comply with the orders of the Board
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-804)
(Ord. 449, passed 8-9-2021)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
92.003   Maintenance and control
   
92.004   Regulation of obstructions
   
92.005   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
92.006   Permitted use of public street space
   
92.007   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
92.008   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
92.009   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
92.010   Guttering and eave spouts
   
92.011   Prohibited obstructions
   
92.012   Trees in sidewalk space
   
92.013   Overhanging branches
   
92.014   Signs and canopies
   
92.015   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
92.016   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
92.030   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
92.031   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
92.032   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
92.033   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
92.034   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
92.035   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
92.036   Special assessments for public works or improvements; notice to
nonresident property owners
Sidewalks
   
92.050   Duty of property owners
   
92.051   Requirement to keep clean
   
92.052   Use of space beneath
   
92.053   Notice to construct, repair or replace sidewalk
   
92.054   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
92.055   Construction and repair at village direction
   
92.056   Materials
   
92.057   Manner of construction
   
92.058   Unlawful sidewalks; rebuilding or relocation
Streets and Alleys
   
92.070   Dedication to public use
   
92.071   Grading, paving and other improvements
   
92.072   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
92.073   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
92.074   Vacating public ways; procedure; filing
   
92.075   Crossings
   
92.076   Names and numbers
   
92.077   Driveways
   
92.078   Excavations
   
92.079   Driving stakes
   
92.080   Mixing concrete
   
92.081   Harmful liquids
   
92.082   Snow, debris and the like on streets prohibited
   
92.083   Dumpsters or detached trailers on streets
Street Trees
   
92.095   Street tree species to be planted
   
92.096   Spacing
   
92.097   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
92.098   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
92.099   Utilities
   
92.100   Public tree care
   
92.101   Consent of property owner
   
92.102   Tree topping
   
92.103   Pruning; corner clearance
   
92.104   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
92.105   Removal of stumps
   
92.106   Interference with City Tree Board
   
92.107   Arborist’s license
   
92.108   Review by City Council
 
   
92.999   Penalty
CITY PROPERTY
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
   STREET SUPERINTENDENT. The city official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, STREET SUPERINTENDENT shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
§ 92.002 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel, macadamize,
remacadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, or resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city corporate
area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct pedestrian
walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems, fountains,
decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent facilities; and
construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These projects may be
funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in
Neb. RS 19-2428 to 19-2431. The City Council may by ordinance create
improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may include two or
more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include
two or more types of the improvements authorized under this section in a single
district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which are to be funded by a
levy of special assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be
ordered as provided in Neb. RS 17-510 to 17-512, except as otherwise provided
in Neb. RS 17-509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
to 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 to 19-2415
§ 92.003 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.004 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there or at
the expense of the city and require and regulate the planting and protection of
shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and removing of such
trees.
   (B)   The city may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and basement
ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts and
rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over
and adjoining and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-555) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) above, the
city, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to be removed,
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The City Council
shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment against the
abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be
known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of notice,
shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to the
general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the Street
Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 92.006 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Street Superintendent. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   (1)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances of public service companies shall be located or erected over,
upon or under the streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application
for location of such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in
writing. Approval by the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service
company granted a right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles,
wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all
times erect and locate their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as
shall be designated by the Council.
      (2)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council, and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The
Council shall designate another location as closely as possible where the
appurtenances may be reset or placed.
      (3)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
   (B)   No water pipe, underground electric line or telephone conduit shall be
laid in the same trench with sewer pipe in any street, alley or public grounds
in the city or nearer than three feet to any sewer pipe. No underground
electric line shall be laid in the same trench with any water or sewer pipe or
telephone conduit in any street, alley or public grounds or nearer than three
feet to any such pipes or conduit.
(Prior Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.008 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, except that all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks, pavements
or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of this
prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk, pavement
or street satisfies the Street Superintendent that the opening is properly
protected by a balustrade or coping of durable material and furnishes the city
with a bond in the amount set by the City Council for the benefit of any person
who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use of the stairway,
cellarway, basement way or entrance.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.009 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner or occupant engaged in construction or demolition of any building
or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect all
excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by day
and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or refusal of the owner or
occupant to erect and maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of
this section, and the city may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.010 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.011 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber by fences,
gates, buildings, structures or otherwise any of the streets, alleys or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement,
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe, shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the Street Superintendent at the expense of the owner of the property upon
which the trees or shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or
neglects, after notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to
the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.16. of this code
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.012 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Superintendent of Streets upon payment of
the fee, if any, established by the City Council.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the city may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
91.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.013 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the occupant of each lot or parcel of ground
abutting on any intersection to trim and or remove any shrubbery, sign or other
obstacle which obstructs the view for a distance of ten feet from such
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 5-311)
   (B)   (1)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground
abutting or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the
branches of trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed
to the height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least
14 feet above the surface of the street, or to the heights otherwise specified
by the City Council.
      (2)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the
property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
91.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.014 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk or alley or on other public property without
having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards, posters
and canopies shall be issued by the City Clerk, subject to the approval of the
Street Superintendent, upon the payment of the fee, if any, established by the
City Council.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of them being dislodged by ordinary
winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster or canopy is in
violation of this section, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant
of the premises where such sign, signboard, poster or canopy is located as
provided in §
91.16 of this code.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.015 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb
or sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or for any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the duty
of the Street Superintendent to inspect the proposed place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk or curb.
      (2)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the
duty of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be
prescribed by the Council or the Street Superintendent. When the applicant is
ready to close the opening made, he or she shall inform the Street
Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect the materials used and the work
done in closing the opening.
      (3)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Street
Superintendent, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or
the committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
      (4)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per-square-foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event
the work is done by the city. If the Council elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the city
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Street Superintendent or
of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
      (5)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety,
to be approved by the Council, in a sum set by resolution.
   (B)   Unless specifically authorized by the Street Superintendent, all
closing shall be done in concrete. In the event of a disagreement of proper
closing between the applicant and the Street Superintendent, the City Council
shall be the final authority on all matters under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.016 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
70.32 of this code, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey
over or across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp
discs or sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting
edges; with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that
extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure
or damage any pavement, gutter or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the city police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
92.999
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 92.030 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to Neb. RS 32-628;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to
30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city
election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the City Council, that property shall not then,
nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition
falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, the signatures shall be
collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address, with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address, match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be confirmed by passage
of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) to (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of not less than
seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general
description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions
of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 92.031 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 92.032 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, or accept by gift or
devise, real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or buildings for
an auditorium, fire station, city building or community house for housing city
enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other public buildings,
including the construction of buildings authorized to be constructed by Neb. RS
Chapter 72, Article 14, and including the construction of buildings to be
leased in whole or in part by the city to any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease such buildings, and
maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of the inhabitants of the
city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the city at a general city election or at an election duly called for that
purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a majority of
the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless, within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance petition against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a petition
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city election or a
special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction
is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year
following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
§
92.034 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be issued
until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the electors
voting on the proposition of their issuance at a general city election or at a
special election called for the submission of such proposition. The question of
such purchase or erection of such a building or buildings, as set forth in
division (A) above, and the question of the issuance of the negotiable bonds
referred to in this division (D)(1) may be submitted as one question at a
general city or special election if so ordered by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council. The number of voters voting at the
last regular city election prior to the presenting of the petition shall be
deemed the number of votes in the city for the purpose of determining the
sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city, when
defeated, shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 92.033 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 92.034 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The city shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 92.035 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the city shall not engage in the construction of any public works
involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications and
estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, professional engineer or those under the direct supervision of an
architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the city that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary or marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply.
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the city is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the city’s architectural or engineering
work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
§ 92.036 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO
NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Before any political subdivision or special taxing district for public
works or public improvements shall be formed, and before the city or any
political subdivision or special taxing district may impose any special
assessment for public works or public improvements, a copy of any notice
required to be published by law shall be mailed to the last known address of
all nonresident property owners as shown on the current tax rolls at the time
such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
   (B)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to the formation of a special
taxing district for public works or public improvements shall mail by certified
mail, with return receipt requested, a copy of the published notice in regard
to the formation of any special taxing district within the city to the last
known address as shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property
owner.
(Neb. RS 13-311)
   (C)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to any special assessment by a
special taxing district shall mail by certified mail, with return receipt
requested, a copy of such notice to be published to the last known address as
shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
   (D)   The failure of the City Clerk, or any other person upon whom the duty
is imposed by law, to mail a copy of a published notice as provided in this
section shall invalidate the assessment against the property involved while
permitting all other assessments and procedures to be lawful.
(Neb. RS 13-313)
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence and
mailing address as shown on the current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of
the county and who is a record owner of property within the boundaries of the
city, special assessment district or taxing district involved.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.050 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Every owner of any lot, lots or piece of land within the limits of this city
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalks along and contiguous to said
lot, lots or pieces of land in good and proper repair and in a condition
reasonably safe for all travelers thereon.
(Prior Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.051 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks, or to permit any snow,
sleet, ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalks. All sidewalks
within the Business District shall be cleaned within five hours after the
cessation of a storm unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 8:30 a.m.
the following day. All sidewalks within the residential area of the city shall
be cleaned within 12 hours after the storm or fall of snow. Any such occupant
or owner who fails to remove the snow, sleet or ice which has accumulated on
the adjacent sidewalks within the time aforesaid, upon conviction, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding that permitted by state law for the violation of
a municipal ordinance and shall pay the costs of prosecution and the cost of
the removal of such snow, sleet or ice.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.052 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained from the
City Council. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit plans
and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the City
Engineer. If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon
the condition that the party receiving them builds, maintains and keeps in
repair a sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all
damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason
of the sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition
precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the city sidewalks as contemplated in this section, the City Council
may require the applicant to furnish a bond to the city as obligee for the
benefit of any person who may suffer an injury or damage by reason of such use.
The bond shall be in such sum as the City Council, in its discretion, may
designate.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.053 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT, REPAIR OR REPLACE SIDEWALK.
   (A)   New sidewalk. Whenever the City Council shall deem it necessary that a
sidewalk should be constructed in front of any lot or piece of ground in the
city in a place where there is no sidewalk, it shall so order and the Street
Superintendent shall thereupon notify the owner of such lot or piece of ground,
or his or her agent, if a resident of the city, of the work or improvement to
be done, and such owner or person so notified shall be allowed 30 days from the
date of said notice in which to construct the same.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
   (B)   Repairing sidewalk. Whenever the Street Superintendent shall deem it
necessary that any sidewalk shall be repaired, or it shall be required by the
City Council or committee of the Council on streets and walks, the owner of the
lot or piece of land along and contiguous to which such sidewalk is situated
shall be notified and shall repair the same within 48 hours from and after the
giving of such notice. Oral notice to the owner shall be deemed sufficient. If
the owner is not found by the Street Superintendent, then a written notice left
in the house situated on such lot or piece of ground or posted upon said
premises shall be sufficient, and the 48 hours shall begin to run from the
leaving or posting of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
   (C)   Reconstructing sidewalk. Whenever the City Council shall deem it
necessary that an old sidewalk be replaced or reconstructed, it shall order the
same to be done and the Street Superintendent shall give notice in the manner
and form provided in division (B) above for replacement or reconstruction of
the same within 30 days from and after such notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 92.054 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The City Clerk shall issue the desired permit unless good cause
appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the City Clerk shall submit the application to the City
Council for determination as to whether the permit should be granted or denied.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed,
such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so designated by
the city. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade
or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or
elevation indicated by the Street Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.055 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
   (B)   (1)   If any such owner shall neglect or refuse, or shall have failed,
after notice has been given as provided in this section, to construct, repair,
replace or reconstruct any sidewalk within the time limit in the notice given
in such case, and whose duty it is made by this subchapter to construct, repair
or rebuild such walks, the Street Superintendent or other officer empowered
herein to act shall proceed at once, without further notice to such owner or
person, to have such sidewalks constructed, repaired, rebuilt or reconstructed,
and the expense of such work shall be assessed to such lot or piece of land and
collected as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
      (2)   Said owner or owners shall be liable for all damages and injury
occasioned by reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (D)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner.
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the in the
city at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof,
personal service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be
assessed.
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll for
collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as other
city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 to 19-
2419
§ 92.056 MATERIALS.
   (A)   All sidewalks on either side of the streets and avenues of this city
in front of or along any lot or lots or land abutting upon the same which shall
be hereinafter constructed, reconstructed or replaced shall be of concrete. No
person shall construct, reconstruct or replace sidewalks with any other
material within the limits of this city; provided, however, the City Council
may by resolution permit other material to be used on certain streets.
   (B)   No person shall repair any sidewalk constructed of material except as
hereinbefore prescribed when such repair shall require any new stringer or
shall exceed in the aggregate one-third of the total amount of running feet in
the sidewalks as repaired; and when any sidewalk within this city shall require
repairs to be made thereon, which said sidewalk is constructed of wooden board
or planks and stringers, the person or persons repairing the same shall not
place any new stringers therein nor lay or replace boards or planks in such
sidewalks, which boards or planks shall exceed in the aggregate one-third of
the total number of running feet in such sidewalks. And such sidewalks shall
not, in any event, be repaired unless such repairs shall first be consented to
and authorized in writing by the committee of the Council on streets and
sidewalks or Street Superintendent of said city, and the said committee shall
cause a copy of such written authority to be filed with the City Clerk.
   (C)   All sidewalks in front of or along any lot or lots or parcels of land
within the fire limits where curbing is set or about to be set shall be
constructed not less than the width of the curb. All other sidewalks in the
city shall be not less than four feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.057 MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All sidewalks shall be laid upon a four-inch bed or foundation of well-
compacted gravel or coal cinders, covered by at least one inch of sand and
having an inclination toward the gutter. Where bricks are used in the
construction of any sidewalks outside of the business portion of the city, the
bed or foundation shall have a convexity of one-half of one inch in the center,
and bricks used in the construction of any sidewalks shall be what are known as
hard paving brick and shall be laid diagonally across the walk. The whole work
of grading and laying down of sidewalks, whether done by the city or the owner
of the respective lots or parcels of land abutting upon the same, will be under
the supervision of the committee of the Council on streets and sidewalks or
Street Superintendent and subject to their approval.
(Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.058 UNLAWFUL SIDEWALKS; REBUILDING OR RELOCATION.
   In case the owner of property in front of which any unlawful sidewalk is
constructed refuses or neglects to rebuild or relocate the same within five
days after notice to do so, then the City Council may order the same rebuilt or
relocated and assess the costs thereof upon the abutting property upon the same
notice and in the same manner provided by law for the construction of and
assessment for new sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
92.999
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 92.070 DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE.
   No street or alley which shall hereafter be dedicated to public use by the
proprietor of ground in the city shall be deemed a public street or alley, or
be under the use or control of the City Council, unless the dedication shall be
accepted and confirmed by an ordinance especially passed for such purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.071 GRADING, PAVING AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any street,
avenue or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts and sewers. No
street, avenue or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-508) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Other provisions on grading and paving, see §
92.002
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 92.072 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The city may, without petition or creating a street improvement
district, grade, curb, gutter and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance of not to exceed one block on either side of that paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from that
major traffic street.
   (B)   Those improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or
alley or any unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed
the minimum standards for pavement set by the city for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
Mayor and City Council may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or
issue paving bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 to 18-2004) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.073 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   The city shall have the power to open, widen or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the city and also
to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All damages
sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
   (B)   Upon the vacation of any street or alley or any part thereof by the
city, the title of such property shall vest in the owner of the abutting
property and become part of such property, one-half on each side thereof,
except that the city may reserve title to such property in the ordinance
vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city, such property
may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as
shall be deemed in the best interest of the city.
   (C)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only on
one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the owner
of the abutting property and become a part of that property unless the city
reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or alley. If
title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged
or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best
interests of the city.
   (D)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley or
lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the vacation,
file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the register of deeds for
the county in which the vacated property is located, to be indexed against all
affected lots.
   (E)   In the event the city does not elect to reserve title in the vacated
portion of such street or alley, the title to said property nonetheless shall
be subject to the following:
      (1)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
      (2)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities and any cable
television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Ord. 349, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 17-559
§ 92.074 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE; FILING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides it would be in the best interests of
the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way, the
City Council shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first-class mail to their last known address, or if there is no known
address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or if a
special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time and place
of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of this form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule: An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way; if
no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
   (E)   All ordinances vacating a public street or alley within the corporate
limits of the city shall be filed within 30 days with the County Register of
Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)
(Ord. 287, passed 12-5-2001) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.075 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Superintendent, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Street Superintendent, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council. Action by the City Council on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.076 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent, upon the
erection of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and
give notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.077 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Construction; permits.
      (1)   Application for construction of private drive. Before any person,
firm or corporation constructs a private drive onto any public street or alley,
an application shall first be made to the City Council for a permit for such
construction. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee of $25 and shall
be acted upon by the City Council at a regular or special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
      (2)   Private drive specifications. Private drives located in the Highway
Commercial Zoning District shall not exceed 36 feet in curb opening length and
shall not be constructed within ten feet of adjacent lot lines unless such
adjacent lots are owned by the applicant. Private drives in all other zoning
districts shall not exceed 24 feet in curb opening length and shall not be
constructed within ten feet of adjacent lot lines unless such adjacent lots are
owned by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
      (3)   Application requirements. All driveway applications shall contain
the following information:
         (a)   The addition, block and lot which the driveway is to serve;
         (b)   The location of the proposed driveway with reference to adjacent
lot lines; and
         (c)   The width of the driveway and type of street surface to which
the driveway will connect.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
      (4)   Issuance of permit. In the event the Land Use Administrator
determines that such application is in due and proper form and that the same
complies with this section, the Land Use Administrator shall issue a permit for
construction of such requested driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)
   (B)   Repair.
      (1)   Requirement. The Street Superintendent may require the owner of
property served by a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon a street
right-of-way to repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked,
broken or otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely
to cause damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement
or sidewalks.
      (2)   Notice. The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by
registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the
owner or the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the
driveway approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner
fails or neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Superintendent may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the approach.
(Ord. 392, passed 8-26-2013; Ord. 408, passed 9-14-2015) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 92.078 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make or cause to be made any excavation or cut in or
under any street, city right-of-way, sidewalk, alley or other public property
in the city, or remove any earth, soil, paving, gravel or other material
therefrom, without first having obtained a permit therefor from the city.
   (B)   No person shall obtain a permit to make such an excavation or cut
without first filing an application, which application shall provide:
      (1)   A statement of where the excavation is to be made, the extent
thereof, the names of the adjacent property owners and the purpose of the
excavation or cut;
      (2)   An agreement that the excavation or cut shall be repaired or
replaced according to the specifications set out in this chapter and as
specified or directed by the City Engineer or the designated city inspector;
      (3)   An agreement to reimburse the city for the actual cost of
supervision or inspection by the designated city inspector; an agreement to
reimburse the city for the cost of all repairs and restorations based on the
specifications delineated herein, including all labor and materials;
      (4)   An agreement providing a date certain by which time the excavation
or cut shall be completed; said date may be extended by the designated city
inspector upon a showing of good cause;
      (5)   A cash bond in the amount of $250 per cut or excavation, to be
approved by the Mayor, guaranteeing the reimbursement of the expenses as
provided above and guaranteeing the completion of the work by the date
specified; and
      (6)   (a)   Proof of liability insurance, which shall save harmless the
city and protect the public and any person from injury or damage sustained by
reason of the excavation or cutting or the handling or storing of materials
therefor.
         (b)   The minimum protections shall be as follows:
 
Property damage, general liability insurance
   Each accide$500,000
Public liability insurance and vehicle liability insurance
   Each accide$1,000,000
   Each person$1,000,000
 
   (C)   All existing concrete that is to be broken out shall be sawed where
indicated by the city’s authorized representative so as to form a smooth,
straight joint at the junction of the new and old concrete. The sawed joint
shall be at least one-third the depth of the concrete. All sawed joints shall
be drilled and doweled at two-foot intervals.
   (D)   All portland cement concrete that is to be replaced shall be
constructed and conform with the specifications of the City Engineer. All
concrete replaced shall be a minimum of six inches of thickness and be high-
early-strength concrete. The city shall complete all such repairs and
restorations based on the specifications delineated herein. The person making
the cut or excavation shall reimburse the city for the cost of all such repairs
or restorations, all pursuant to division (B)(3) above.
   (E)   All asphalt streets shall be restored to a minimum of six inches and
replaced according to the City Engineer’s specifications. The subbase shall
have a minimum of nine inches of crushed gravel. The asphalt used must be a hot
mix and must be approved by the City Engineer’s office or his or her designated
representative. All asphalt streets must be saw cut or cut with a pneumatic
spade or blade just prior to placing new asphalt. All concrete streets with
asphalt shall be cut, excavated and patched according to the City Engineer’s
specification. All repairs or restorations shall be completed by the city based
on the specifications delineated herein. The person making the cut or
excavation shall reimburse the city for the cost of all such repairs or
restorations, all pursuant to division (B)(3) above.
   (F)   All graveled streets shall be restored with a minimum of six inches of
crushed gravel furnished and compacted in place by the contractor.
   (G)   Contractors who perform work in the city rights-of-way shall seed or
sod the construction area. They shall restore the area back to original
condition as determined by the city’s authorized representative.
   (H)   The contractor shall be responsible for the roadway that the backhoe
pads are set on. Any damage done to the existing roadway will be repaired by
the contractor to the City Engineer’s specifications or his or her authorized
representative’s specifications.
   (I)   If at any time within three years after the issuance of the permit the
city’s authorized representative shall find that the work has not been
satisfactorily done or has not been properly backfilled, he or she shall notify
the person who has taken out the permit in writing that the work must be put in
satisfactory condition in one week or the bonding company will be notified.
   (J)   The city’s authorized representative shall supervise all excavations
made for any purpose in the streets, city rights-of-ways, alleys or other
public property, and he or she shall require all excavations to be backfilled
in a good and professional manner as herein specified.
   (K)   Any person receiving a permit to make excavations in or upon any
street, city right-of-way, sidewalk, alley or other public property shall erect
and maintain around the same, both day and night, during the continuance of the
work and until the city’s authorized representative permits traffic over the
excavation, suitable and adequate guards, fences, flares and signals so as to
prevent injury to persons or property because of such excavations; said
protection to be approved by the city’s authorized representative.
   (L)   All native materials or sand used for backfill shall be free from
frozen materials, rocks, foreign material that may decompose and other
materials that may affect the stability of the backfill. All trenches and
structure excavations shall be backfilled as soon as the jointing compound,
mortar, concrete and the like has attained a suitable degree of hardness, and
this work shall be performed expeditiously until completed.
   (M)   In the case of excavations for any kind of pipe or conduit, the space
between the pipe or conduit and the bottom and sides of the trench shall be
packed and compacted as fast as placed, up to the level of the top of the pipe
or conduit. The material shall be deposited carefully in the trench to avoid
injuring the pipe or conduit and shall be placed in layers of not more than six
inches of thickness or mobile trench compactors in layers of not more than 12
inches in thickness. Other tampers may be approved for use by the City
Engineer. Tamping with the side or the bottom of an excavating bucket shall not
be acceptable. Flooding will not be allowed.
   (N)   When the trench is filled, the contractor shall remove all surplus
material, leaving the street or alley clean and in order.
    (O)   All excavations must comply with the requirements of OSHA, 29 C.F.R.
part 1926, subpart P, “Excavations and Trenches,” and any and all other
applicable codes.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) (Ord. 289, passed 3-28-2002) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.079 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.080 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever and to use
said pavement as a mixing board for said material.
(Prior Code, § 5-205) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.081 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high-lubricating oils which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.082 SNOW, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push or deposit snow, sleet, ice or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 92.083 DUMPSTERS OR DETACHED TRAILERS ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner or operator
of a dumpster, or the owner or operator of a truck trailer, utility trailer,
boat trailer, horse trailer or any other trailer designed to be pulled behind a
motor vehicle, to park or place such dumpster or trailer detached from its
motor vehicle on the streets within the city limits.
   (B)   (1)   A detached trailer or a dumpster of any kind belonging to a
contractor with a current building permit may be parked in an area where
vehicles can legally park on the street as long as the contractor is actively
working on the property connected with the building permit, has provided the
city with an acceptable bond for any damages to the street, has taken
appropriate measures to eliminate potential damage to the street, and the
location of the detached trailer or dumpster does not impede the safe flow of
traffic.
      (2)   A copy of the building permit showing the address of the property,
issuance date and expiration date shall be attached to the trailer or dumpster
visible from the traffic side.
(Ord. 360, passed 8-27-2007) Penalty, see §
92.999
STREET TREES
§ 92.095 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The tree list adopted by the Tree Board and published by it constitutes the
official street tree species for the city. No species other than those included
in this list may be planted as street trees without written permission of the
Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-907) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.096 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in the tree list, and, except in special plantings designed
or approved by a landscape architect, no trees may be planted closer together
than the following:
   (A)   Small trees: 30 feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: 40 feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 1-908) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.097 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance that trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in the tree
list, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following:
   (A)   Small trees: two feet;
   (B)   Medium trees: three feet; and
   (C)   Large trees: four feet.
(Prior Code, § 1-909) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.098 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Prior Code, § 1-910) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.099 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in the tree
list may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 1-911) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.100 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, subject to §
92.101 of this chapter, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs
within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public
grounds as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance
the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
 
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by
adjacent property owners, providing that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-912) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.101 CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   The City Tree Board shall plant no trees on public rights-of-way without the
consent of the adjacent property owners. Such consent shall be in writing and
shall be maintained as part of the official Tree Board records.
(Prior Code, § 1-913) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.102 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this section at
the determination of the City Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-914) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.103 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 1-915) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.104 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   All trees that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition are declared
to be a public nuisance and shall be removed by the property owner from the
private property on which they are located. For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the City Tree Board shall have the authority to
enter on private property to inspect the trees thereon. In the event that the
trees are diseased or dead, notice shall be given to the owner of the property
by mail or personal service, and such notice shall allow said owner 60 days to
remove said tree or trees. In the event that the owner is a nonresident, notice
shall be made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation, or by
certified mail if the name and address is known.
   (B)   The person charged with the removal may enter into an agreement with
the city that such work be accomplished by the city, and the expense shall be
declared to be a lien upon such property from the time the same becomes due
until paid. If the owner fails, neglects or refuses to enter into such an
agreement or to remove the trees, the City Tree Board may enter upon the
property and proceed to direct the removal of the trees. The cost thereof shall
be chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the city
after being properly billed, the costs shall be assessed against the property
and certified by the City Clerk to the County Treasurer to be collected in the
manner prescribed by law. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law, to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The LAST KNOWN
ADDRESS shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such
required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 1-916) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.105 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 1-917) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.106 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board or any of its agents while engaging in the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees, park
trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-918) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.107 ARBORIST’S LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street trees within the city
without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall be
$25 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be required
of any public service company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit
of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each
applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the
minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 for property damage,
indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged resulting from the
pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
(Prior Code, § 1-919) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.108 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal any ruling or order of
the City Tree Board to the Council, who may hear the matter and make a final
decision.
(Prior Code, § 1-920)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter
for which a penalty is not therein provided shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
92.077 of this chapter and who constructs a driveway onto a city street or
alley without first securing a permit therefor shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state
law for violation of a municipal ordinance, and each day’s maintenance of the
same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-405)
   (C)   Any person, owner or operator who shall violate the provisions of §
92.083 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed that permitted by state law for violation of a
municipal ordinance, together with the court costs.
(Ord. 360, passed 8-27-2007)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   General prohibition
   
93.003   Running at large; tethering
   
93.004   Domestic farm animals
   
93.005   Fowl
   
93.006   Wild animals
   
93.007   Fighting
   
93.008   Killing, poisoning and injuring
   
93.009   Enclosures
   
93.010   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
   
93.011   Equines; bovines; prohibited acts
   
93.012   Impounding generally
   
93.013   Officer’s compensation
   
93.014   Right of entry
   
93.015   Interference with police
   
93.016   Animal shelter
Rabies
   
93.030   Definitions
   
93.031   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
93.032   Post-incident management
   
93.033   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management
   
93.034   Impoundment and observation; release; fees
   
93.035   Officer’s authority when capture impossible
   
93.036   Proclamation of danger
   
93.037   Enforcement
Dogs
   
93.050   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
93.051   Unlicensed dogs
   
93.052   Wrongful licensing
   
93.053   Collar or harness required
   
93.054   Removal of collar, harness or tags
   
93.055   Dogs running at large; destruction
   
93.056   Impounding of dogs
   
93.057   Liability of owner
   
93.058   Females in season
   
93.059   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
93.060   Dangerous dogs
Kennels
   
93.075   “Kennels” defined
   
93.076   Kennel license required; nuisance
   
93.077   Application; fee
   
93.078   Regulations
   
93.079   Department of Agriculture license required
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure or
impoundment of animals.
   DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Any horse, sheep, mule, cow, goat, swine or offspring
thereof or any other livestock generally raised for commercial sale.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any llama, zebra, buffalo or other animal, other than a
domestic farm animal or dog, weighing more than 50 pounds.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors or has charge, custody
or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or be lodged
or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard, lot, grounds
or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel operator
temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by another
person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE.  Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within a cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
(Prior Code, § 2-502)
§ 93.002 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It is hereby determined unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or confine
any snakes, exotic animals or domestic farm animals within the corporate limits
of the city or within one mile thereof except as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-501) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another.
   (B)   The owner of a cat may permit the cat to run at large within the
corporate limits, subject to any restrictions or prohibitions otherwise imposed
by the City Council.
   (C)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own an
animal in the corporate limits of the city that is prohibited by the City
Council.
Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.004 DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
   It shall be lawful to keep and maintain domestic farm animals in enclosed or
fenced areas on private property, provided such animals are confined on not
less than one acre of land per animal and provided such enclosed or fenced
areas are not located within 200 feet of a habitable structure owned by someone
other than the owner of the livestock or person in control of such livestock.
(Prior Code, § 2-503) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.005 FOWL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, own, harbor or maintain
fowl of any type within the corporate limits of the city, except as follows.
      (1)   Any person may keep and maintain hens only, not to exceed eight in
number at any one time at any one address, except as otherwise provided herein.
      (2)   Any such hens shall at all times be kept within an enclosed place
or fenced area, provided, however, they shall not be kept at any time inside a
structure used as a residence or inside a garage, whether attached or detached,
and provided further, they shall at all times be kept within the side yard or
rear yard of the property and not less than seven feet from any lot line of the
property unless the City Council first determines the area and dimensions of
the property make it impossible to do so.
      (3)   The person shall first obtain a written annual permit from the City
Clerk’s office permitting the keeping of such hens, the application for which
shall be on a written form provided by the Clerk’s office, and which shall
include the name and property address of the applicant, the number of hens to
be kept, the name and contact information of the person in charge of the hens,
and such other information as required by the City Clerk or his or her
representative. The application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee in
the amount of $20 or such other amount as established by resolution of the City
Council.
      (4)   The City Council reserves the right to consider and approve, in its
sole discretion, an application for a written annual permit allowing the
keeping and maintenance of more than eight hens at any one time at any one
address under any such terms and conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate and necessary. This application shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee in the amount of $2.50 per hen exceeding eight in number or
such other amount as established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Any permit issued for hens as provided in this section shall be issued
by the City Clerk or his or her designated representative only after an
investigation of the property on which the hens are to be kept and the manner
in which they are to be kept. The City Clerk may consult with any police or
health officials deemed necessary or appropriate by the City Clerk. A permit
shall be issued only after the City Clerk determines the location and keeping
of hens is not a health hazard or nuisance to the surrounding neighborhood. Any
permit issued shall be valid for a period of one year, from January 1 to
December 31, and may be revoked by the City Clerk at any time for any violation
of its conditions, city ordinances or other laws, rules and regulations.
   (C)   Any fowl kept in violation of this section shall be a nuisance, and
each violation hereof shall be punishable as provided generally in this
municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 2-504) (Ord. 454, passed 10-3-2022) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.006 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.007 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight. Any
person convicted of violating this section shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding that permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-317) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.008 KILLING, POISONING AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim or destroy or
attempt to injure, maim or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.009 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.010 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any other city or
village, or any other public official authorized by the city or any other city
or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules, regulations or
ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special investigator
appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb. RS 81-201
while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 17-138
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 93.011 EQUINES; BOVINES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall or dragging of any bovine
by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport, practice or
contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice occurring in
conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing or pulling contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912)
Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 to 54-912
§ 93.012 IMPOUNDING GENERALLY.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
93.034 of this chapter does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks
of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the City
Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of impoundment.
Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed to the owner
listed on the license application by regular United States mail to the address
listed on the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other
nondomesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the city or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safety
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with applicable rules
and regulations, except that if, in the judgment of the officer, a suitable
home can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to the person
who can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay all fees
and meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The city shall
acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal impounded in the
animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting period after
giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for payment of the
fees established by the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 93.013 OFFICER’S COMPENSATION.
   If the City Council so provides, any official appointed or designated to
destroy and dispose of animals under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid, in addition to his or her regular salary or other compensation, the sum
set by the Council for each animal so destroyed and disposed of.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to compensate keeper of pound, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 93.014 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of discharging the duties of this chapter and to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, any police officer is empowered to enter upon any
premises upon which an animal is kept or harbored and demand exhibition of such
animal by the owner or the licensee for any dog. It is further provided that
any city police officer may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a
reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine such animal and take
possession of such animal when, in his or her opinion, it is required.
(Prior Code, § 2-323)
§ 93.015 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Cross-reference:
   Obstructing a peace officer prohibited, see §
132.05
§ 93.016 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (A)   The animal shelter shall be safe, suitable and conveniently located
for the impounding, keeping and destruction of dogs. Said shelter shall be
sanitary, ventilated and lighted.
(Prior Code, § 2-324)
   (B)   The designated City Animal Shelter shall be at a location to be
determined by the City Council.
(Res. 101-03, passed 3-29-2001) Penalty, see §
93.999
RABIES
§ 93.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The state’s Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor or have control of, charge of or custody of a
domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring or having charge or control
of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid animal to
habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person’s house, yard
or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators
temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals owned by
other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in this state
or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
§ 93.031 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies
with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department. Young domestic animals
shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the city
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, every hybrid animal
in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated at
intervals specified by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the city shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or
arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the city prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter with respect to vaccination
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the city for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the city for field trial or show purposes or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the city for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the city which does not comply with the animal
health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are applicable
to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 71-4405)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.032 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.033 DOMESTIC OR HYBRID ANIMAL OR LIVESTOCK; POST-EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT.
   Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by
the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4407) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.034 IMPOUNDMENT AND OBSERVATION; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrids of the family Canidae.
All impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment
and maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Any dog or other animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies or
any dog not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions set forth above which
has bitten any person or has caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall
be seized by a police officer or animal control officer of this city and shall
be impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or public health
authority for not less than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian,
the dog or other animal has no clinical signs of rabies at the end of such
impoundment, it shall be released to the owner upon said owner’s payment of the
costs of said impoundment or, in the case of a stray, shall be disposed of in
whatever manner deemed best by the animal control officer or city police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-314)
      (4)   Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (5)   At the expiration of impoundment, a domestic or hybrid animal may
be claimed by payment of the established pound fees and by compliance with the
rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release.
If the domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the
authorities may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with
applicable laws or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.035 OFFICER’S AUTHORITY WHEN CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The animal control officer shall have the authority to kill any domestic
animals with the characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 2-315)
§ 93.036 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever, in its opinion, the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the City Council shall issue a proclamation
ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to confine it
for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the date of the
proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be harbored by any
good and sufficient means in a house, garage or yard on the premises on which
the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all owners of any such
species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in this section.
§ 93.037 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the owner of any domestic or hybrid animal or other animal fails
or refuses to comply with §§
93.032 or
93.033 of this chapter, the rabies control authority shall obtain an order for
seizure of the animal pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 29, Article 8.
(Neb. RS 71-4410)
   (B)   In the city, all ordinances, codes or rules and regulations concerning
the control of rabies or the vaccination of domestic or hybrid animals against
rabies shall be enforced by the city health and law enforcement officials or
those other officers with regulatory authority as specified by the City
Council.
(Neb. RS 71-4412)
Penalty, see §
93.999
DOGS
§ 93.050 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the city shall,
within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the dog
annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by the
City Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by the City
Council. It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and
knowingly license an unspayed female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the
Council has established different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to
the owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be
valid until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the City Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the general fund of the city, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate, and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, and 71-4412
§ 93.051 UNLICENSED DOGS.
   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
city without a license tag affixed as required in this subchapter are hereby
declared a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 2-305) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.052 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other city
identification than that issued by the city for dogs.
(Prior Code, § 2-303) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.053 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.054 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.055 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; DESTRUCTION.
   RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog found off the premises of the owner and
not under the control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash,
cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint. It
shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any dog to run at large
within said city, and every dog found running at large in violation hereof is
declared to be a public nuisance and may be picked up and disposed of by the
animal control officer or city police officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-307) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.056 IMPOUNDING OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to capture, secure
and remove in a humane manner to the designated City Animal Shelter any dog
violating any of the provisions of this subchapter. Any dog so impounded shall
be treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained
at the pound for a period of four days unless reclaimed earlier by the owner.
Not later than one day after the impoundment of any dog, notice of impoundment
of all animals, including any significant marks or identification, shall be
posted for three days at the office of the City Clerk as public notification of
such impoundment. Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during this period of
impoundment by payment as set forth in Chapter 37. The owner shall then be
required to comply with the rabies vaccination requirements within 72 hours
after release. The animal services facility shall acquire legal title to any
unlicensed dog impounded in the Animal Shelter after four days.
   (B)   All unclaimed dogs not placed for adoption shall be destroyed and
buried in a humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 2-321) (Ord. 279, passed 3-29-2001; Ord. 387, passed 9-24-2012)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.057 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-606 and 56-602
§ 93.058 FEMALES IN SEASON.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a female
dog to permit her to run at large within the city while in season. Any such
female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and, as such, may be impounded or destroyed
according to the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-322) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.059 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or alleys in
the city.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the City Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the city police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
city animal shelters.
Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.060 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the
city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of animals, and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties, in whole or
in part, include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that required medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, and the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has,
in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted
the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520 or 28-521,
or was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, or
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been
observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock. LIVESTOCK includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring multiple sutures, cosmetic surgery or one or more broken
bones or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 2-308)
   (B)   Requirements and restrictions after declaration.
      (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city or
village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may grant
such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and the
dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of the
county, city or village in which he or she resides with regard to dangerous
dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control authority shall
not grant permission under this section if the county, city or village has an
ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous dogs. After the
permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the county, city or
village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and such dog for a
period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed 90 days, to ensure the owner’s
compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city or village with
regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall permit the
rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   Confinement of dangerous dogs.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation shall own, keep or harbor, or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her or it, or under his, her or its charge or control, any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner. The
owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property where the dog
is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access and that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be not less than ten inches by twelve inches and shall contain the words
“warning” and “dangerous animal” in high-contrast lettering at least three
inches high on a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   Failure to comply. Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by
an animal control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The
owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal
control authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal
control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by
the animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this
section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
   (E)   Impoundment; hearing; destruction. In addition to any other penalty,
the animal control authority shall order the animal control officer to dispose
of a dangerous dog in a humane manner. Notice of impoundment of all animals,
including any significant marks or identification, shall be posted at the
office of the City Clerk as public notification of such impoundment. Upon such
request, the animal control authority shall schedule the matter to be heard at
a special or regular meeting of the animal control authority, at which time,
the owner must present clear and convincing evidence that the dog will not
present a present nor future threat to the safety of the public or to public
property. The animal control authority shall not be bound by the state’s Rules
of Evidence. Upon such proof to the satisfaction of the animal control
authority, the dog may be returned to the owner after the owner pays all costs
of confinement, board, medical treatment, food and care for the dog. If the
foregoing costs are not paid within 15 days of the hearing, the dog shall be
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
   (F)   Effect of prior conviction. If a dangerous dog of an owner with a
prior conviction under this section attacks or bites a human being or domestic
animal, in addition to any other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control authority, placed in quarantine
for the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
93.999
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
KENNELS
§ 93.075 “KENNELS” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KENNEL. Any lot or parcel of land or place where more than three dogs or
more than three cats which are over the age of 12 weeks are confined, treated,
boarded, housed or cared for, and shall include any lot or parcel of land or
place where a person, corporation or other entity engages in, conducts, manages
or maintains a veterinary business, regardless of the number of animals
treated, kept, confined or boarded.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)
§ 93.076 KENNEL LICENSE REQUIRED; NUISANCE.
   (A)   License. It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or
other entity to maintain, keep, conduct or operate any kennel within the zoning
limits of the city without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-402)
   (B)   Nuisance. It is hereby declared that it is and shall be a nuisance for
any person, corporation, partnership or other entity to maintain, keep, conduct
or operate any kennel within the zoning limits of the city without first
obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-403)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.077 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Any person or legal entity seeking a kennel license shall make written
application to the City Council. Such application shall state in detail the
type, number and gender of animals to be held in such kennel, describe the
kennel facility in detail and provide such other information as may be required
by the City Council. Such application shall also have attached thereto the
consent of all property owners or occupants of lands or lots adjoining the land
upon which the proposed kennel is to be located.
   (B)   In the event the City Council determines that such kennel would not
constitute a nuisance, it shall issue a license on such terms and conditions as
it deems appropriate. Such license shall be renewed on an annual basis and may
be revoked after notice and hearing for violation of any term or condition of
the issuance of the license. The annual license fee shall be $50 and the
license shall not be issued until such fee is paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-404) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.078 REGULATIONS.
   Every place used as a kennel shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed to remain thereon for more
than 24 hours. All animals shall be humanely treated and any animal having any
disease shall be properly isolated and treated.
(Prior Code, § 2-405) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.079 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All commercial breeders, dealers or animal boarding kennels shall be
required to obtain a license to operate such facilities from the state’s
Department of Agriculture as a condition for an operation license from the
city.
(Prior Code, § 2-406)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s
maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
   (B)   Anyone harboring any livestock as described in §
93.001 of this chapter or permitting fowl to run at large shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not exceeding that
permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance, and each day’s
maintenance described in §
93.002 of this chapter shall be determined to be a separate offense and may be
prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 2-505)
   (C)   Any person who permits his or her dog to run at large within the
confines of the city as set out in §
93.055 of this chapter is hereby deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than that sum permitted by state
law and shall pay the costs of prosecution. This penalty shall be in addition
to any other penalties prescribed by this chapter, either against the owner or
the particular dog.
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
   (D)   (1)   Any owner whose dangerous dog, as set out in §
93.060 of this chapter, inflicts on a human being a serious bodily injury as
defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor for the first
offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (D)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Smoking in public places
   
94.002   Stoves, furnaces and chimneys
   
94.003   Street fires prohibited
   
94.004   Open burning ban; waiver
   
94.005   Petroleum gas
   
94.006   Poisonous and flammable gas
   
94.007   Prohibited fuels
Fire Limits
   
94.020   Fire limits defined
   
94.021   Fire limits building permit
   
94.022   Fire limits materials
   
94.023   Permitted repairs
   
94.024   Ironclads prohibited
   
94.025   Removal required after damage
   
94.026   Repair required after damage
   
94.027   Sprinkler systems
Fireworks
   
94.040   Definition
   
94.041   Fireworks vendors; regulation of
   
94.042   Permitted fireworks
   
94.043   Prohibited acts
   
94.044   When and where use permitted
   
94.045   Exceptions
   
94.046   Emergency ban
   
94.047   Violations
   
94.048   State statutes regulate use, sale and possession of fireworks
Explosive Material
   
94.060   Storage
   
94.061   Bullets
   
94.062   Blasting permits
Authority and Enforcement
   
94.075   Life Safety Code adopted by reference
   
94.076   Fire Prevention Code adopted by reference
   
94.077   Fire Code enforcement
   
94.078   Lawful entry
   
94.079   Violation notices; correction of violations
 
   
94.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite a lighter, strike a match or
indulge in the smoking of tobacco on or in any building or structure where
public gatherings take place within the corporate limits while any
entertainment, program, show, amusement, game or other spectacle to which the
general public is invited is in progress, or while patrons thereof are finding
or leaving seats and standing room; provided, the foregoing shall not be
construed to apply to banquets, dinners or entertainments held in any of the
aforesaid buildings or structures where food is served and the entertainment
takes place incidental thereto or in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-308) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.002 STOVES, FURNACES AND CHIMNEYS.
   All furnaces, stoves and other heating devices shall be installed at a
proper distance from combustible materials and portions of the building. Any
combustible materials or portions of the building that are dangerously close to
such heating devices shall be protected by noncombustible material. This
section shall apply both to existing structures and those which may hereafter
be erected.
(Prior Code, § 7-312) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.003 STREET FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set a fire on the pavement or near
any curb now built or hereafter to be built within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-310) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.004 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above
for an area under the city Fire Department’s jurisdiction by issuing an open
burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open burning. The
permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to conduct open burning
shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a form provided by the
State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the city Fire
Department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course of that
state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 PETROLEUM GAS.
   Any person using liquefied petroleum gas as a heat or energy source, or any
person desiring to store or possess liquefied petroleum gas, shall do so only
if such possession shall conform to the rules and regulations of the Liquid
Petroleum Gas Association and the rules and regulations promulgated by the
state’s Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-306) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.006 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GAS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep any form of
poisonous or flammable gas in the city for any period of time must first get
permission from the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall require the name of the
gas, the place of storage and the amount of gas stored. It shall then be the
duty of the Fire Chief to prescribe such rules, regulations and precautionary
actions as he or she may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-307) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.007 PROHIBITED FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow to be burned crank
case drainings or to burn oil or other flammable substances other than wood in
a homemade stove.
(Prior Code, § 7-309) Penalty, see §
94.999
FIRE LIMITS
§ 94.020 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the city shall be and constitute the
fire limits: all of the zoning district which is designated “A” Business Zone.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 94.021 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire
limits, application must be made to the City Council. CONSTRUCTION shall
include the enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits.
   (B)   Such application shall be furnished by the City Clerk and shall
require such information as the City Council deems necessary to determine
whether or not to grant a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-202) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.022 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with such
incombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that said structure will
be reasonably fireproof.
(Prior Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.023 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter or add to any
building in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building
unless said person shall first submit an application to make such repairs,
alterations or additions to any building and shall state on the application
that the material used will be noncombustible and approved by the Fire Chief.
Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not require a
permit.
   (B)   In the event that the repairs, alterations or additions cost or
involve more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required to apply for
a new building permit, which shall state that the building, when completed,
shall be fireproof and made of noncombustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.024 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds and structures known as “ironclads” which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron shall be considered and deemed
to be constructed of combustible materials. Any future construction of an
ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-205) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.025 REMOVAL REQUIRED AFTER DAMAGE.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure or any
noncombustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or casualty.
(Prior Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.026 REPAIR REQUIRED AFTER DAMAGE.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged to the
extent of less than 50% of its value, exclusive of foundation, it shall be the
duty of the owner, lessee or occupant to remove or repair said building in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow a building to stand in such damaged and decayed condition. Any
such building shall be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving
notice to do so by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.027 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   All buildings constructed within the fire limits of the city to a height in
excess of 30 feet shall be equipped with a sprinkler system which has been
approved by the state’s Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
94.999
FIREWORKS
§ 94.040 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation and which
meets the definition of consumer or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 94.041 FIREWORKS VENDORS; REGULATION OF.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell fireworks of any
description whatsoever except permissible fireworks.
      (2)   (a)   PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS shall mean only sparklers; Vesuvius
fountains; spray fountains; torches; color fire cones; star- and comet-type
color aerial shells without explosive charge for the purpose of making a noise;
lady fingers, not to exceed seven-eighths of an inch in length or one-eighth of
an inch in diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed 50 milligrams
each in weight; color wheels; and any other fireworks approved by the state’s
Fire Marshal.
         (b)   PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS shall mean only those fireworks annually
listed and promulgated by the state’s Fire Marshal in Title 157 NAC Chapter 8,
“Fireworks Acceptable in the State of Nebraska.”
      (3)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24
and July 5 of each year.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter, the City Council
may permit fireworks of any description for the purpose of public exhibitions
or display.
   (C)   The sale of permissible fireworks shall be unlawful, except from a
duly licensed retailer at a stand or building solely for the purpose of selling
permissible fireworks, which stand or structure shall be located at a distance
of at least ten feet from any other existing structure. It shall be unlawful
for any person or persons, firm, partnership or corporation to possess for sale
at retail or store or keep any fireworks of any description within the city,
provided that the possession and storage shall be permissible between June 24
and July 5 of each year.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.042 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers;
Vesuvius fountains; spray fountains; torches, color fire cones; star- and
comet-type color aerial shells without explosive charge for the purpose of
making a noise; lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths of an inch in length
or one-eighth of an inch in diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed
50 milligrams each in weight; color wheels; and any other fireworks approved by
the state’s Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.043 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, fire, launch or throw any
fireworks object which is lit to explode or which explodes upon contact with
another object:
   (A)   From, into or onto any motor vehicle;
   (B)   Onto any street, highway or sidewalk;
   (C)   At or near any persons;
   (D)   Into or upon any building;
   (E)   Into or at any group of persons;
   (F)   At or upon the premises of another person; and
   (G)   During any pyrotechnics display especially authorized by resolution of
the City Council; and, provided further, when said resolution permits the
display to be held in the City Park, no lawfully permitted fireworks shall be
exploded in the City Park during the time of the pyrotechnics display except by
the personnel especially authorized by resolution of the City Council to do so.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.044 WHEN AND WHERE USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   The discharge or exploding of fireworks within the corporate limits of
the city, other than in the Central Business District, shall be permitted only
on the following dates and during the following times:
      (1)   June 25 to July 3: 8:00 a.m. to 10:30 p.m., Sunday through Friday;
8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., Saturday; and
      (2)   July 4 to July 5: 8:00 a.m. to midnight.
   (B)   The discharge and exploding of fireworks shall not be allowed at any
time within the Central Business District.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.045 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for public exhibitions or display under authorization of the City Council
or fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to written
authorization from the state’s Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 94.046 EMERGENCY BAN.
   The Mayor, in the event of extreme drought conditions, shall the have the
authority to make an emergency declaration banning the discharge of fireworks
within the corporate limits of the city. The emergency declaration shall have
the force of law and violations shall be punishable as provided generally in
this municipal code.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.047 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of any provision of this subchapter shall be unlawful and
shall be punishable as provided generally in this municipal code.
(Ord. 437, passed 5-28-2019) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.048 STATE STATUTES REGULATE USE, SALE AND POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   The use, sale, offer for sale and possession of permissible fireworks in the
city, as defined by Neb. RS 28-1241, shall be governed and regulated by Neb. RS
28-1241 to 28-1252, including any and all amendments thereto, together with any
rules and regulations adopted by the state’s Fire Marshal for the enforcement
of Neb. RS 28-1241 to 28-1252.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) Penalty, see §
94.999
EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL
§ 94.060 STORAGE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to store or keep explosive materials for any
period of time shall notify the Fire Department and register such information
with the City Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage. The transfer of explosive
materials to another person within the city shall require the person receiving
the explosive materials to register the transfer and the new location of the
explosive materials with the City Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials to
a new location by the owner shall require registration of the new location with
the City Clerk.
   (B)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
concrete, metal or stone and be closed at all times except when in actual use.
Such receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are flames or
flammable materials. The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept
clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass or trees not less than 25 feet in all
directions. Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-401) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.061 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells and percussion caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials and high explosives.
(Prior Code, § 7-402) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.062 BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the city must notify
the Fire Department and secure a permit from the City Council 24 hours prior to
such discharge. Such explosives shall be discharged in conformance with the
conditions specified in the permit and such directives and precautions as may
be prescribed under the direction and supervision of the Fire Chief. In no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the
State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-403) Penalty, see §
94.999
AUTHORITY AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.075 LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Incorporated by reference into this code are the standards recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, known as the Life Safety Code, most
recent edition adopted by the State Fire Marshal. This code shall have the same
force and effect as if set out verbatim herein. Three copies of the Life Safety
Code are on file with the City Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 94.076 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the state’s Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this chapter as through spread at large herein,
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be on file with the City Clerk and shall be available for
public inspection at any time that the City Office is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
§ 94.077 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated fire
code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-303)
§ 94.078 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary, said structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire or any other violations of the provisions of the city
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-304)
§ 94.079 VIOLATION NOTICES; CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as herein prescribed, and who receives
written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of the city
ordinances, to correct the condition that violates said ordinance or ordinances
within five days from the date of receipt of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-305)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, aside from §§
94.040 to
94.047 of this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in a sum not exceeding that permitted by state law for
violation of a municipal ordinance for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-601)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
114.   BUSINESSES RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Occupation taxes enumerated; exemption
   
110.03   Interstate or government businesses
   
110.04   When due; duty of parties liable
   
110.05   Paid to Treasurer; not assignable
   
110.06   No refunds
Fire Insurance Company Tax
   
110.20   Amount of tax; when due
   
110.21   Local agent to pay tax; action to enforce payment
   
110.22   To whom paid; deposit in Fire Fund
   
110.23   Failure to pay
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, there is hereby levied an occupational
tax upon each and every occupation and business carried on within the corporate
limits of this city as hereinafter specified and enumerated, and every person,
firm, association or corporation carrying on the occupation or business herein
specified within the limits of said city shall pay to the City Treasury the sum
hereinafter named as a tax upon such occupation or business. All money so
collected shall be credited to the General Fund of said city; the said money
shall be and remain under the control of the City Council for such use and
purpose as other monies belonging to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
§ 110.02 OCCUPATION TAXES ENUMERATED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an occupational tax upon each and every
occupation and business within the corporate limits of this city as hereinafter
enumerated, in the several different amounts, and upon the several respective
occupations, professions and lines of business, as follows.
 
Occupation, Profession or Business                                     Tax
Pool or billiard halls, per table, per year                            $10
Retail sales of tobacco, per year                                      $10
Telephone companies engaged in intrastate calls to, from or within the $50
city, per year
 
   (B)   The sale of locally grown farm produce and the sale of consigned goods
at a community-wide consignment auction are exempted from this tax if prior
approval of the City Council is obtained for these sale activities.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 110.03 INTERSTATE OR GOVERNMENT BUSINESSES.
   The license tax levied by this chapter is not levied upon any business or
occupation:
   (A)   Which is interstate; or
   (B)   Which is done or conducted by:
      (1)   Any department of the government of the United States, this state,
this city or the officers thereof as such in the course of its or their
official duties; or
      (2)   Any county or subdivision of this state or its officers.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
§ 110.04 WHEN DUE; DUTY OF PARTIES LIABLE.
   (A)   The tax shall be due and payable in advance before the business
begins, for the number of days for which the occupation or business is to be
carried on within the taxing year.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every person, firm, association
or corporation to pay the tax levied against him, her, them or it at the time
the same becomes due as provided in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 4-105)
§ 110.05 PAID TO TREASURER; NOT ASSIGNABLE.
   The tax herein levied shall be paid in cash to the City Treasurer or other
person designated by resolution of the Mayor and City Council who, upon the
payment thereof, shall issue receipt therefor to the person, persons,
partnership, firm or corporation paying the same, properly dated and specifying
on behalf of whom and for what the sum is paid. The City Treasurer’s receipt
shall be the warrant and proper authority of any person to carry on and conduct
the business specified in said receipt and for which the money has been paid;
provided, said receipt shall not be assignable.
(Prior Code, § 4-106)
§ 110.06 NO REFUNDS.
   No person paying an occupational tax shall be entitled to a refund of any
part of the tax so paid.
(Prior Code, § 4-107)
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY TAX
§ 110.20 AMOUNT OF TAX; WHEN DUE.
   An occupational tax of $5 per annum is hereby levied upon each and every
fire insurance company doing business in the city for the use and benefit of
the volunteer Fire Department of said city, which said tax shall become due and
payable on May 1 of each year hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
§ 110.21 LOCAL AGENT TO PAY TAX; ACTION TO ENFORCE PAYMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the local agents of such companies to pay said tax
for each company represented by them, and in default of the payment thereof at
the time it is due, an action may be brought by said city against such company
or its local agent, or both, for the collection of said tax.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
§ 110.22 TO WHOM PAID; DEPOSIT IN FIRE FUND.
   Said tax shall be payable to the City Clerk, who shall, upon the receipt
thereof, pay the same to the City Treasurer forthwith, to be appropriated to
the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
§ 110.23 FAILURE TO PAY.
   Should any fire insurance corporation, company or association fail to pay
the tax provided by this subchapter when due, said city may recover the same in
a civil action brought against such fire insurance company, corporation or
association.
(Prior Code, § 4-204)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter
for which penalty is not herein provided shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
   (B)   Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall refuse or
neglect to pay the occupational tax or taxes herein levied in §§
110.01 to 110.06 of this chapter or who shall transact any such business or
engage in any such occupation without having complied with the provisions of §§
110.01 to 110.06 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a
sum not less than $5 nor more than $100 and assessed the court costs of
prosecution; provided, that every suit brought under this division (B) shall be
in the name of this city and may be commenced by a warrant and arrest of the
person or persons against whom the suit is brought, or that suit may be
commenced by a common summons; and provided further, whenever any of the above-
enumerated businesses or occupations shall be conducted by an agent for a
corporation or a nonresident, such agent shall be subject to arrest and
punishment under the provisions of this division (B) if his or her principal
shall not have complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-108)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.003   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.004   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses and Occupation Taxes
   
111.015   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.016   Liquor application; retaining licensing standards
   
111.017   Occupation taxes or license fees
   
111.018   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.019   Licensee requirements
   
111.020   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.021   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.022   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.023   Catering licenses
   
111.024   Display of license
   
111.025   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.026   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
111.027   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.040   Location
   
111.041   Change of premises
   
111.042   Signs
   
111.043   Advertisements and sales
   
111.044   Premises open to view
   
111.045   Access to dwellings
   
111.046   Restrictions on conduct of other business
   
111.047   Sanitary conditions
   
111.048   Conduct prohibited on licensed premises
   
111.049   Hours of sale
   
111.050   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.051   Original package required
   
111.052   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.053   Spiking beer
   
111.054   Gambling on licensed premises
   
111.055   No delivery after closing hours
   
111.056   Sale for resale
   
111.057   Transportation of retail licensee liquor
   
111.058   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
Administration and Enforcement
   
111.070   Mayor or City Clerk to make recommendations to Liquor Control
Commission
   
111.071   Guidelines for administrative approval of special designated liquor
license requests
 
   
111.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Alcohol offenses involving public intoxication or minors, see
Chapter 133
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01 to
53-103.51 shall be used.
§ 111.002 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No persons shall within this city sell, give away, dispose of,
exchange or deliver, or permit the sale, gift or procuring of, any alcoholic
liquor to or for any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated by the
consumption of such liquors.
   (B)   No minor shall have in his or her possession alcoholic liquor in any
tavern, public place, street or alley in this city or inside a vehicle while
upon any street, alley or public place in this city.
   (C)   No minor shall obtain or attempt to obtain alcoholic liquor, by
misrepresentation of age or any other method, in any tavern or other public
place where liquor is sold in this city.
(Prior Code, § 4-304) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.003 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquors on any street or
alley in this city or inside any vehicle on any street or alley of this city,
or in any place open to the general public other than a premises having an on-
sale liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 4-306)
   (B)   Except when the state’s Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance
hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the general public except
as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This
division (C) does not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the
catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb.
RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.004 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary, to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals.
      (2)   If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer
may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
111.999
LICENSES AND OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 111.015 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation:
         (a)   If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
         (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival or tasting
competition, including exhibitions, festivals or tasting competitions that are
for nonprofit organizations such as fundraising events, legally conducted under
the Act if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale. Alcoholic
liquor served pursuant to this division (B)(2)(b) shall clearly be identified
as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the rules and
regulations of the Commission by signage, and the location of the manufacturer
shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the exhibition,
festival or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of the alcoholic
liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.016 LIQUOR APPLICATION; RETAINING LICENSING STANDARDS.
   The City Council adopts the following licensing standards and criteria for
consideration by the Liquor Control Commission of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, or for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor, or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, in
accordance with the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
Neb. RS 53-132(3)(a), and § 7 of LB 911, eighty-ninth Legislature, second
session, 1986:
   (A)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area;
   (B)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
   (C)   Zoning restrictions;
   (D)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
   (E)   The existing population and projected growth, both city-wide and
within the area to be served;
   (F)   Existing liquor licenses, class of such licenses and distance and time
of travel to such licenses;
   (G)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises is located as well as its projected growth; and
   (H)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated in
conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the public
interest.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
§ 111.017 OCCUPATION TAXES OR LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Occupation taxes or license fees for these and similar retail
establishments shall be:
 
Class   Details                                                         Tax/Fee
Class A Beer only, for consumption on the premises                      $100
Class B Beer only, for consumption off the premises, sales in the       $100
        original packages only
        Alcoholic liquor, for consumption on the premises and off the
        premises, sales in original packages only. If a Class C license
        is held by a nonprofit corporation, it shall be restricted to
Class C consumption on the premises only. A Class C license may have a  $300
        sampling designation restricting consumption on the premises to
        sampling, but such designation shall not affect sales for
        consumption off the premises under such license.
Class D Alcoholic liquor, including beer, for consumption off the       $200
        premises, sales in the original packages only
Class I Alcoholic liquor, for consumption on premises                   $250
 
   (B)   All applicable license fees shall be paid by the applicant or licensee
directly to the City Treasurer, in the case of premises located inside the
corporate limits of the city, and directly to the County Treasurer in the case
of premises located outside the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   (1)   The license year, unless otherwise provided in the state’s
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., shall commence on May 1 of
each year and shall end on the following April 30, except that the license year
for a Class C license shall commence on November 1 of each year and shall end
on the following October 31.
      (2)   During the license year, no license shall be issued for a sum less
than the amount of the annual license fee, regardless of the time when the
application for such license has been made, except that:
         (a)   When there is a purchase of an existing licensed business and a
new license of the same class is issued; or
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a new license for a location which has not
been previously licensed, the license fee and occupation taxes shall be
prorated on a quarterly basis as of the date of issuance.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall credit such occupation tax fees to the
General Fund of the city. Upon the failure of any such applicant to pay such
occupation tax as provided for by this section, it shall be mandatory upon the
Mayor and the City Council to pass a resolution denying the application for a
license or requesting the state’s Liquor Control Commission to deny such
application. Such resolution shall state the reason for denial and shall be
forwarded to the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-307) (Ord. 323, passed 1-27-2005; Ord. 409, passed 2-29-2016)
§ 111.018 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. unless within specific
exemptions or exceptions provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship or cause to be
transported, imported, brought or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor in
excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.019 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to a felony
under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to any Class
I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act, would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to railroad
licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   (a)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant
whose spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor
license. Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if
the state’s Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public
interest will not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be
prima facie evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor
license, the applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license.
         (b)   This prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to
the satisfaction of the Commission:
            1.   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            2.   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet the
standards for fire safety as established by the state’s Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.020 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
the business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the state’s Liquor Control Commission of the notice
and a copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail, a craft brewery license or a microdistillery license, the City Council
may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting
or refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the state’s Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   (a)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter
at any time upon any premises licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. to determine whether any provision of the Act, any
rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act or any
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the City Council has been
or is being violated, and at that time, examine the premises of the licensee in
connection with such determination; and
         (b)   Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act or
any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
            1.   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
            2.   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
            3.   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.027 of this chapter, it determines that the licensee has violated any of
the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation duly
enacted, adopted and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the state’s Liquor Control Commission of the
notice and copy of the application provided for in Neb. RS 53-131, the City
Clerk shall present it to the Mayor and the City Council at their next meeting.
Said Mayor and City Council shall, by resolution, fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be had and evidence taken under oath from any person desiring to
be heard on the propriety of the issuance of the license in question. Notice of
the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in
this city one time not less than three nor more than seven days before the time
of hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 21 days after the date of
receipt of the notice and copy of the application by the City Clerk. After said
hearing, the Mayor and City Council shall, by resolution, recommend either the
issuance or the denial of said license. The City Clerk shall thereupon mail to
the state’s Liquor Control Commission by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a
copy of the resolution, which shall state the cost of the published notice;
(Prior Code, § 4-314)
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the state’s Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm or
corporation licensed under the state’s Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.021 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the state’s
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or the rules and regulations
of the state’s Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good
faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended,
canceled or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in
his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.022 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper
in this city, one time between February 20 and March 5 of each year, individual
notice of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license
for which provisions are made in Neb. RS 53-124(5), in the following form.
 
NOTICE OF RENEWAL OF RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE
Notice is hereby given that pursuant to Section 53-135.01, the liquor license
may be automatically renewed for one year from May 1,______, for the following
retail liquor licensee, to-wit:
(Name of Licensee, address of licensed premises)
Notice is hereby given that a written protest to the issuance of automatic
renewal of license may be filed by any resident of the City of Ponca on or
before March 15,_____, in the office of the City Clerk; that in the event
protests are filed by three or more such persons, hearing will be had to
determine whether continuation of said license should be allowed.
                                                   (Name)
                                                   City Clerk
 
      (2)   The City Clerk shall file or cause to be filed with the state’s
Liquor Control Commission proof of publication of said notices on or before
March 12 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 4-315)
   (B)   In the event written protests are filed with the City Clerk by three
or more residents of this city against the automatic renewal of a license, the
City Clerk shall present the same to the Mayor and City Council at their next
meeting, and thereupon, they shall by resolution direct the licensee to submit
an application in the same manner as he or she would be required to do for an
original license, and the Chief of Police shall forthwith serve said resolution
on said licensee by delivering to him or her personally a true and certified
copy thereof. Upon receipt by the City Clerk from the state’s Liquor Control
Commission of the notice and copy of the application, the same procedure shall
be followed as is provided for in the case of an application for an original
license.
(Prior Code, § 4-316)
§ 111.023 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the state’s Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.020 of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.024 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.025 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101
et seq. or any city ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.026 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. or any city ordinance by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.027 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The following form is hereby prescribed for the use of residents of
this city desiring to complain to the Mayor and the City Council that any
licensee is violating any provision of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., regulations prescribed by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission or any provision of this chapter.
To the mayor and City Council of the City of Ponca, Nebraska.
The undersigned respectfully state:
   1.   That they are each residents of the City of Ponca, Nebraska.
   2.   That they believe that ______________, the holder of a Class ___ license
in the aforesaid city, has violated Section _________ of (check one or more)
   _____ the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   _____ the regulations prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   _____ the Municipal Code of the City of Ponca, Nebraska.
   3.   That the aforesaid belief is based on the following facts, to-wit:
_____________
   ______________________________________________________________________
   ______________________________________________________________________
   ______________________________________________________________________
   ______________________________________________________________________
STATE OF NEBRASKA      )
                  ) ss
COUNTY OF DIXON      )
Subscribed in my presence and sworn to before me by ________________,
_______________, and ________________, this _____ day of_____________, 20____
                                 __________________________
                                 Notary Public
My commission expires __________.
 
(Prior Code, § 4-310)
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk shall supply the forms prescribed herein and
shall, on request, supply one to any resident of this city desirous of
initiating a complaint thereon. Any complaint duly executed on the aforesaid
form by five residents of this city and filed with the City Clerk shall be
presented by the Clerk to the Mayor and City Council at their next meeting. If
the Mayor and the City Council are satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that, from the facts alleged, there is a reasonable
cause for such belief, they shall, by resolution, set the matter for hearing
within ten days from the filing of the complaint.
      (2)   Said resolution shall state the time and place of said hearing and
shall direct the Chief of Police to serve the same on the licensee by
delivering to him or her personally a true and certified copy thereof at least
72 hours prior to the time of hearing. Said resolution shall also state the
section or sections of the state’s Liquor Control Act, the regulations
prescribed by the state’s Liquor Control Commission or this chapter alleged to
have been violated, and the facts on which said allegations are based as stated
in the complaint. Present at said hearing shall be the City Attorney and the
licensee, who may be represented by counsel employed by him or her. The
complainants shall be present and may be represented by counsel employed by
them. The Mayor and the City Council shall, within 30 days from the date the
complaint is filed, by resolution dispose of the complaint, which resolution
shall be deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the state’s Liquor
Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-311)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.040 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the state’s Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to the making of application for a license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized clubs
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university, but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the Commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) above, taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   (1)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall
submit a written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver.
      (2)   The application shall include:
         (a)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
         (b)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
         (c)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (E)(2)
(b) above.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is:
      (1)   Surrounded by property owned by the college or university,
including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university; or
      (2)   Adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or
university, including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way
adjacent to the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
111.999
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-foot requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 111.041 CHANGE OF PREMISES.
   Any retailer licensee desiring to transfer his or her license from one
premises to another shall file a written request for permission to do so with
the City Clerk, and shall also file with said Clerk a sworn statement showing
that the premises to which removal is to be made complies in all respects with
the requirements of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., as amended. The City Clerk shall present said application and statement
to the Mayor and City Council at their next meeting, and they shall, by
resolution, approve or disapprove the transfer. If they approve the transfer,
the approval thereof shall be endorsed on the license by the Mayor and attested
by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-318)
§ 111.042 SIGNS.
   (A)   No retailer licensed in this city shall use an exterior sign
describing or with reference to his or her liquor business larger than 600
square inches, and only one such sign shall be used at any time.
   (B)   No retailer licensee shall use an interior sign describing or with
reference to his or her liquor business larger than 28 square feet, including
its frame, and no brand name included in said sign shall exceed 100 square
inches.
   (C)   All signs in or about any licensed retail premises shall be considered
exterior signs when the same, in whole, at all times cannot be conveniently
read by those within that portion of the licensed premises normally occupied by
customers or the general public, exclusive of entryway or entry hall.
(Prior Code, § 4-319) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.043 ADVERTISEMENTS AND SALES.
   Advertising by licensees in this city shall not contain misrepresentations
or misleading statements, and no sales shall be promoted or made by any
licensee by unlawful means. Alcoholic liquors shall not be offered, delivered
or disposed of by any licensee as a prize.
(Prior Code, § 4-326) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.044 PREMISES OPEN TO VIEW.
   In premises within this city in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the premises is licensed, other than as a restaurant, hotel or
club, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted
in the windows or upon the door of such premises which shall prevent a clear
view into the interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or
sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction,
nor any arrangements of lights or lighting, shall be permitted in or about the
interior of such licensed premises which shall prevent a full view of the
entire interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms
where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously
lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white light so that all
parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
(Prior Code, § 4-329) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.045 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.046 RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCT OF OTHER BUSINESS.
   Retail licensees in this city shall not maintain in their licensed premises
any door opening into or access leading into premises owned, used or occupied
by other persons, nor shall any retail licensee permit any other person to use
his or her licensed premises for the purpose of carrying on within such
licensed premises any business activity of such other persons in any of its
phases, such as solicitation, sale, service, delivery, storage or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 4-324) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.047 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
111.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.048 CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee in this city shall engage in, allow or suffer in or upon the
licensed premises any disturbances, lewdness, immoral activities or displays,
brawls or unnecessary noise, or allow, permit or suffer the licensed premises
to be used in such a manner as to create public censure or become a nuisance,
public or private.
(Prior Code, § 4-325) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.049 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the city except during the hours
provided herein:
      (1)   All alcoholic liquors (including beer and wine): Monday through
Sunday, on- and off-sale, 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.; and
      (2)   Such limitations shall not apply after 12:00 p.m., noon, on Sunday
to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation holding a license pursuant to
Neb. RS 53-124(6)(a)(iii).
   (B)   (1)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time
fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         OFF-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
         ON-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 427, passed 5-31-2018) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.050 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise or in payment for any services rendered, and if any
person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to be
created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.051 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.052 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
111.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.053 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added additional alcohol, or to
permit any person to add additional alcohol to any beer on the licensed
premises of such licensee.
(Prior Code, § 4-317) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.054 GAMBLING ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   Unless sanctioned by state law, no licensee in this city holding a license
covering premises open to the public for the sale of liquor or beer shall
directly or indirectly permit gambling on or in the licensed premises, nor
shall he or she permit the operation or possession of any payoff gambling
device, slot machine or punch-board, mechanical or otherwise, whether payoff is
in cash or merchandise, in, on or about the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-320) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.055 NO DELIVERY AFTER CLOSING HOURS.
   No retail licensee in this city operating premises open to the public shall
act as retainer or keeper of liquor for customers or other persons for the
purpose of the delivering or disposing of such liquor after closing hours as
provided by state law, ordinance or resolution, or on days when sales are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-323) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.056 SALE FOR RESALE.
   No retail licensee in this city shall engage, directly or indirectly, in any
transaction concerning the resale of any liquors owned by him or her as a
licensee, nor shall such licensee so permit the sale or delivery of any such
liquors in such quantities as would place a reasonably minded person on notice
that such liquor might be intended for resale.
(Prior Code, § 4-321) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.057 TRANSPORTATION OF RETAIL LICENSEE LIQUOR.
   No retail licensee in this city shall permit the transportation of alcoholic
liquor from his or her licensed premises in any manner for any purpose, or to
any location other than has been expressly authorized in writing by the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-322) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.058 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail
sells alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid
capacity of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall
record the date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s
name and address and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s
license, state identification card or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature.
      (2)   This record shall be on a form prescribed by the state’s Liquor
Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. The
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above, or is
in possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
111.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.070 MAYOR OR CITY CLERK TO MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO LIQUOR CONTROL
COMMISSION.
   Pursuant to the Liquor Control Act of this state, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., the Mayor or City Clerk are hereby appointed agents for the city for
making recommendations to approve or deny the application for a special
designated license to the state’s Liquor Control Commission. In making his or
her recommendation, the Mayor or City Clerk shall consult with the Chief of
Police and City Attorney and follow the guidelines established by state
statutes and the ordinances of the city for the issuance of said license.
(Res. 2004-04, passed 4-26-2004)
§ 111.071 GUIDELINES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL OF SPECIAL DESIGNATED LIQUOR
LICENSE REQUESTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGENT. The committee consisting of the City Mayor, City Clerk-Finance
Director and Police Chief, all serving on behalf of the City Council.
      CITATION. See VIOLATION.
      NLCC or NEBRASKA LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION. The state governing body as
created under the state’s Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
      SDL or SPECIAL DESIGNATED LICENSE. A license for a special event whereby
alcoholic liquors will be sold as required by the state’s Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
      VIOLATION. An act which is in noncompliance with the state’s Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. or state statutes or city ordinances.
      VIOLATION PERIOD. The 12-month period immediately preceding the date of
the SDL application.
   (B)   Eligible organizations.
      (1)   Only current retail liquor license holders and 501(c) nonprofit
organizations can apply for an SDL as defined by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission.
      (2)   The applicant must have fewer than two violations during the
violation period at the time of application.
      (3)   The applicant may have previously applied for an SDL and the City
Council reviewed and approved the application.
      (4)   All other organizations that do not meet the criteria above will
automatically be referred to the City Council for placement on the next City
Council meeting agenda.
   (C)   Application time.
      (1)   Application Form 200 of the NLCC and all supporting documents shall
be submitted to the City Clerk not less than ten business days prior to the
event.
         (a)   If the applicant is unsure of administrative approval, the
applicant shall submit the application in a timeframe that allows for the
appeals process prior to the event
         (b)   Incomplete applications may delay the processing of an
application.
      (2)   The application will be processed by an agent within two business
days of receipt of the application or forwarded to the next City Council agenda
if timing allows.
      (3)   The NLCC requires that an SDL application must be submitted a
minimum of ten working days prior to the event for Commission approval. Late
applications or applications missing signed local approval will be rejected by
the NLCC. There are no exceptions.
   (D)   Review process.
      (1)   In determining if the SDL license should be approved or denied, the
agent shall determine that all statutes, rules and requirements affecting said
SDL license are complied with and fulfilled prior to approving said license.
      (2)   If it is determined that unusual or special circumstances are
involved in the approving or denying of said license, the agent shall refer
said application to the City Council for approval or denial of said license.
      (3)   An applicant for an SDL license that has had the license denied by
the agent may appeal the determination of the agent to the City Council. In
order to be heard on appeal by the City Council, the applicant shall file with
the City Clerk, not later than three days following the denial of application,
a request to be heard by the City Council at the next regular City Council
meeting.
      (4)   The notice of approval or denial of the license shall be forwarded
to the NLCC in the same manner as if approval or denial was issued by the City
Council.
      (5)   Issuance of an SDL is subject to review and approval by the NLCC.
After the application is approved by the NLCC, the license will be mailed to
the City Clerk’s office.
(Res. 2023-02, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter for
which a penalty is not therein provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding that
permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
Section
   
112.01   License to sell; issuance
   
112.02   License application
   
112.03   License term; fees
   
112.04   Rights of licensee
   
112.05   Disposition of fees
   
112.06   Transfer of license
   
112.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
Cross-reference:
   Tobacco offenses involving minors, see
Chapter 133
§ 112.01 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes and cigarette material to persons 21 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies and
corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as provided in §
112.02 of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 28-1421)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 112.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation desiring
a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the City Clerk a
written application stating the name of the person, partnership, limited
liability company or corporation for whom the license is desired and the exact
location of the place of business and shall deposit with the application the
amount of the license fee provided in §
112.03 of this chapter. If the applicant is an individual, the application
shall include the applicant’s Social Security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422)
§ 112.03 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability company
or corporation selling at retail shall be $10 per year.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems and packages of tobacco in any
form, at wholesale, shall pay a license fee of $100, and if such combined
annual sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes,
electronic nicotine delivery systems and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler’s license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if the
applicant is a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability
company, by a member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an
officer or manager thereof, that in the past, such wholesaler’s combined sales
of cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems and
packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the aggregate 150,000
annually and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for the
current year for which the license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely in
such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler’s license
shall be revoked until the full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for a license is made after July 1 of any calendar
year, the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in §§
112.01 and
112.02 of this chapter shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars,
tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes and cigarette
material by the licensee and employees to persons 21 years of age or over, at
the place of business described in the license for the term therein authorized,
unless the license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb.
RS 28-1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 112.05 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the Treasurer of the School Fund for
the city.
(Neb. RS 28-1426)
§ 112.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the City Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the purchaser.
In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the City Clerk may
transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428)
§ 112.07 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Hours of solicitation
Itinerant Merchants, Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.15   Permit; application
   
113.16   Applicability
   
113.17   Hours of operation; food truck vendors
   
113.18   Duration of a valid permit
   
113.19   Fees
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to solicit
any individual between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. unless they have a
previous appointment with the resident or residents of the premises solicited.
(Prior Code, § 4-504) Penalty, see §
113.99
ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.15 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license required by this subchapter shall file
an application with the City Clerk. The application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, by all partners in a partnership, or by the
president of a corporation, or by a managing member of a limited liability
company. The applicant shall provide the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city; the local address of such individual; the permanent
address of such individual; and the capacity in which such individual shall
act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if an organized business entity, the state in
which it is organized;
      (4)   The nature of advertising to be done for the business if
applicable;
      (5)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime and, if so, the nature of each offense and the
penalty assessed for each offense;
      (6)   A complete description of the nature of the business proposed to be
conducted;
      (7)   A description of the make, model, identification number, and
license and registration numbers of any vehicle proposed to be in the business;
      (8)   Copy of the state sales tax permit or proof of applicable
exemption;
      (9)   To the extent the proposed business is subject to any licensing,
permit or inspection authority of any state regulatory agency or other
jurisdiction, a true and correct copy of a current and valid license, permit or
inspection certificate or other evidence deemed sufficient by the City Clerk to
conduct the proposed business; and
      (10)   A certificate of insurance or other evidence deemed sufficient by
the City Clerk that the proposed business has a policy of commercial general
liability insurance at all times business is intended to be conducted within
the city.
   (B)   Every applicant for a permit required by this subchapter shall, if
required by the City Clerk, attach to his or her application credentials from
that person, if any, for which the applicant proposes to do business,
authorizing the applicant to act as such representative.
(Ord. 477, passed 5-30-2024)
§ 113.16 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all itinerant merchants, peddlers and solicitors
conducting business within the city. ITINERANT MERCHANT is defined to include,
but not limited to, food truck vendors conducting business on public property
within the city.
(Ord. 477, passed 5-30-2024)
§ 113.17 HOURS OF OPERATION; FOOD TRUCK VENDORS.
   The hours during which itinerant merchants that are food truck vendors may
operate are 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. on Mondays only. If a food truck vendor is
hired for a private event, written approval from the real estate owner on which
the food truck will operate must accompany the permit application.
(Ord. 477, passed 5-30-2024)
§ 113.18 DURATION OF A VALID PERMIT.
   Each permit issued to a vendor by the City Clerk will be valid for one
calendar year, regardless of application date, to use within the city. The
applicant will have to reapply with current application documents each calendar
year. Permits are non-transferable.
(Ord. 477, passed 5-30-2024)
§ 113.19 FEES.
   When the permit application is deemed approved, there will be a $10 per day
fee assessed. This fee is to be paid to the City Clerk. If fee is failed to be
paid, the City Clerk has the right to revoke the permit.
(Ord. 477, passed 5-30-2024)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter for
which a penalty is not therein provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding that
permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
CHAPTER 114: BUSINESSES RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED
Section
   
114.01   Junk yards and dealers
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 JUNK YARDS AND DEALERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      JUNK. Includes scrap metals; scrap materials, whether liquids, solids or
gases; branches of trees; and dismantled or wrecked automobiles, tractors and
machinery, or parts thereof.
      JUNK COLLECTOR. Any person going from place to place or house to house
collecting or buying iron, copper, brass and zinc scraps, rags, bottles or old
paper and selling the same to a junk dealer.
      JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, collecting or dealing in metals of any kind and in any form,
including scrap iron, bottles, rags and used tires; the dismantling or taking
apart of automobiles, other than for repair, or the wrecking of automobiles;
the storage of automobiles unfit for operation; the storage of automobile
bodies and parts thereof; the storage of automobiles or parts thereof kept for
salvage; the storage of scraps from automobiles; and/or the storage of iron,
metals or junk.
      JUNK YARD. Any place in the city where or from which any person shall
conduct, engage in and/or carry on the business of junk dealer as herein
defined.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate a
junk yard as defined herein, whether for gain or otherwise, within the
corporate limits or one mile adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any and all persons violating any of the provisions of §
114.01 of this chapter for which a penalty is not therein provided shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not exceeding that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-701)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Malicious mischief
   
130.05   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.06   Injury to trees
   
130.07   Removing dirt and the like
   
130.08   Posting
   
130.09   Posted advertisements
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages the property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with the property of another so as to
endanger persons or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes a pecuniary loss
of $500 or more but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if her or she,
knowing that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and
leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person without
his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an
aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to willfully destroy,
mutilate, deface, injure or remove any tomb, monument, gravestone, structure or
thing of value which is located upon any government property, cemetery or
property of historic value. Any such offender shall be liable in an action for
trespassing in the name of the beneficial holder of said property for all
damages which arise from the commission of such unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 2-106) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person wantonly or maliciously in any manner to
molest, injure or destroy any property of another in this city.
(Prior Code, § 2-105) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in accordance
with its decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only lawful
authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 REMOVING DIRT AND THE LIKE.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb or take
away from any street, alley or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones or other
materials forming a part of such street, alley or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-131) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks, or public
grounds of the city for signs, signposts, or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully or maliciously tear,
deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person, firm
or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and lawfully
posted and the same remains of value.
(Prior Code, § 2-124) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s
maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
   (B)   (1)   First degree criminal trespass as set out in §
130.02(A) of this chapter is a Class I misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Second degree criminal trespass as set out in §
130.02(C) of this chapter is a Class III misdemeanor, except as provided for in
division (B)(2)(b) below.
         (b)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-520, 28-521)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
   
131.06   Disturbing an assembly
   
131.07   Unlawful assembly
   
131.08   Soliciting without a permit
   
131.09   Excessive noise
   
131.10   Curfew
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the City
Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the peace and quiet of any
person, family or neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 2-102) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 DISTURBING AN ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb, interrupt or interfere with
any lawful assembly of people, whether religious or otherwise, by loud and
unnecessary noise or by threatening, indecent or shocking behavior. Any person
or persons so disturbing an assembly shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and fined in accord with state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-108) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for three or more persons to assemble together upon any
sidewalk or street in front of or adjacent to any store, shop or other place of
business so as to obstruct the public right-of-way along said street or
sidewalk or the entrance to said place of business, or so as to obstruct or
injure the carrying on of any lawful business in any of the places aforesaid,
within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-130) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 SOLICITING WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to solicit upon the public
streets or in any private residence alms, gifts or contributions for private
benefit unless the person so soliciting shall have first secured a permit from
the City Clerk authorizing him or her to conduct such operations within the
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 2-127) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   It is hereby determined to be unlawful to operate industrial equipment,
heavy machinery, jack hammers and other industrial equipment emitting loud
noise or to race automobile engines within the city between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to disturb the comfort, repose, peace
and quiet of residents of the city unless such activity has been approved in
advance by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 CURFEW.
   (A)   Hours generally. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
18 years to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play or be in or upon the public
streets, public places and public buildings, places of amusement and
entertainment, vacant buildings or vacant lots, or otherwise operate any
automobile, bicycle or other vehicle in, upon, over or through the streets or
other public places of the city, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday nights and 12:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights until the hour of
5:00 a.m. of the following day unless such person is accompanied by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the legal care and custody of said minor
person or unless the minor person is upon an emergency errand or legitimate
business directed by his or her parents, guardian or legal custodian, except as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-201)
   (B)   Hours extended. Nothing herein contained shall prohibit said minor
persons from attending special school functions or adult-supervised
entertainment conducted by any school, church or fraternal organization which
continues beyond the curfew hours as set out in division (A) above; in all such
cases, the hours herein prohibited shall be extended for those minors attending
said special social function or entertainment to one hour after the closing of
said special function.
(Prior Code, § 2-202)
   (C)   Parental liability; violation. It shall be unlawful for the parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of minors under the
age of 18 years to allow or permit said minor persons to do any of the acts or
things prohibited by divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 2-203)
   (D)   Enforcement; police authorization. Every member of the police force,
while on duty, shall be authorized to detain any such minor willfully violating
the provisions of this section and, upon apprehension of said minor, shall
forthwith notify by telephone or other appropriate means the parents or legal
guardians or person in custody of said minor child.
(Prior Code, § 2-204)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s
maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
   (B)   Any violation of §
131.10 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
by a warning for the first offense and a fine of $10 for the second offense. A
third and any subsequent violation shall constitute a violation of §
131.10(C) and the parents of said child shall be held liable.
(Prior Code, § 2-205)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid peace officers
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing peace officers
   
132.06   False reporting
Offenses Against Firefighters and the Fire Department
   
132.20   Interfering with firefighters
   
132.21   Refusing to aid firefighters
   
132.22   Interfering with or damaging fire equipment
   
132.23   Obstructing fire hydrants
   
132.24   Driving over fire hoses
   
132.25   False alarms
   
132.26   Pedestrian obstruction of fire trucks
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID PEACE OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer acting under color of his or her official authority from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means which require substantial force to overcome resistance
to effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING PEACE OFFICERS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose
of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
emergency care provider, or an emergency in which human life or property are in
jeopardy, to any hospital, emergency medical service or other person or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed, by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for the assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
132.99
OFFENSES AGAINST FIREFIGHTERS AND THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 132.20 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge of or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.21 REFUSING TO AID FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-117) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.22 INTERFERING WITH OR DAMAGING FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, destroy or in any other way
to interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-114) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.23 OBSTRUCTING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or obstruct the Fire Chief or
the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-115) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.24 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-118) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.25 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, and without good and
reasonable cause, raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-120) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.26 PEDESTRIAN OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-121) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
132.21 to 132.26 of this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not exceeding that permitted by
state law for violation of a municipal ordinance for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-601)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook or stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Littering
   
133.06   Trash
   
133.07   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
133.08   Aboveground propane tanks
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
   
133.23   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.24   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.25   Drinking on streets, on public property or in public places; open
beverage containers; special permits
   
133.26   Toxic inhalants
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
133.42   Hitching rides
Weapons Offenses
   
133.55   Discharge of firearms
   
133.56   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
 
   
133.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this city.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, buildings, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the city, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and in every
such case, the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in
any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance, into any well or into any spring, brook or branch of running water
of which use is made for domestic purposes shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container which is
installed on the property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or negligently
place or throw upon the premises of another any filth, garbage, leaves, papers
or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant thereon.
(Prior Code, § 2-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
      Whoever shall build, erect, continue or keep up any dam or other
obstruction in any river or stream of water in the city and thereby raise an
artificial pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly
injurious to the public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense, and
the court shall, moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.08 ABOVEGROUND PROPANE TANKS.
   Except for one tank per person, per premises, with a capacity of not greater
than 125 gallons, the use and maintenance of aboveground propane tanks within
the corporate limits of the city is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 2-134) (Ord. 274, passed 1-27-2000; Ord. 459, passed 12-19-2022)
Penalty, see §
133.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine
products or use tobacco, in any form whatever, in this city shall be guilty of
an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free
from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the
person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic nicotine
delivery systems or alternative nicotine products, to any person under 21 years
of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) above, a person who is at least 15
years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with division (A) above if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such a compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer or an intern with a state
or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
state’s Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this division (B) shall not be in violation of Neb. RS
28-1427.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in §
133.21(B) of this chapter, any person under the age of 21 years who obtains
cigars, tobacco, cigarettes or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery
systems or alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by
representing that he or she is of the age of 21 years or over is guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.23 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 133.24 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 to 53-103.51 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the definitions
of the terms “alcoholic liquor,” “consume,” “minor,” “sale” and “to sell.”
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in §
111.015 of this code, no minor may sell, dispense, consume or have in his or
her possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any
other place, including public streets, alleys, roads or highways, upon property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in
or on any other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets,
alleys, roads or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any
subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume, possess or have physical
control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony or in his or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, where found, see Neb. RS 53-103
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 to 53-409
§ 133.25 DRINKING ON STREETS, ON PUBLIC PROPERTY OR IN PUBLIC PLACES; OPEN
BEVERAGE CONTAINERS; SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
            1.   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
            3.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced; and
            4.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
         HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-
of-way.
         LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and not more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include hotel or airport buses or shuttles, taxicabs or
buses.
         OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
         PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers
while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible
to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for
any person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open
alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public
parking area or on any highway in this city.
      (3)   Except as provided in §
111.003 or division (A)(4) below, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
         (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this city; or
         (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this city.
      (4)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but
not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
state’s Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. RS Chapter 75, Article 3.
Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this city if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink alcoholic liquor of
any kind on the streets or alleys, or upon property used or owned by the
government of the United States, this state or any governmental subdivision
thereof, or in theaters, dance halls or in any other place open to or
frequented by the public within said city, unless such premises are licensed
for such purposes by the state or unless a special permit has been granted for
the same by the City Council.
      (2)   Upon application for a special permit for the consumption of
alcoholic liquor on public streets or other public places, the City Council may
permit such consumption on such terms and conditions as it may determine. For
such permit to be issued, written application must be made to the City Clerk
and the same must be acted upon at a special or regular meeting of the City
Council. The terms and conditions for issuance of a special permit shall be set
forth in the minutes of the meeting at which such application is considered.
(Prior Code, § 2-101) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.26 TOXIC INHALANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to breathe or inhale any substance for
the purpose of inducing a condition of intoxication, depression, exhilaration
or any other distorting or disturbing state which affects the auditory, visual
or nervous processes. Any person who shall sell or offer for sale any container
of a substance producing such an effect and having the property of releasing
toxic vapors shall be guilty of a misdemeanor if he or she has cause to suspect
that the product sold will be used in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2-133) Penalty, see §
133.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the city
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also
be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall
be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this subsection is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A) above to be removed from public property in this city, the state agency
shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an
abandoned vehicle described in division (A) above to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 133.41 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
§ 133.42 HITCHING RIDES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found soliciting trucks,
automobiles or other vehicles to stop or slow down for the purpose of asking
for a ride or riding on said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 2-132) Penalty, see §
133.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.55 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.56 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s
maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of §
133.40 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Penalties for
such violation shall not exceed $500 and/or imprisonment for a time not to
exceed three months, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Disorderly houses or houses of prostitution
   
134.03   Public indecency
   
134.04   Window peeping
   
134.05   Stalking
   
134.06   Gambling
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse in exchange for money or other thing of value commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above of this section is:
      (1)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
state’s Juvenile Code. A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18
years of age into custody under this section shall immediately report an
allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and
Human Services, which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the
Child Protection and Family Safety Act.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.02 DISORDERLY HOUSES OR HOUSES OF PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, operate or maintain, or
to be an inmate of or visit, a house of prostitution or a disorderly house
within this city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any place kept in such a manner as to disturb, annoy or
scandalize the public generally or persons within the particular neighborhood,
or any place used as a public resort by drunkards, prostitutes or other idle or
vicious persons, or any place of public resort where illegal practices are
habitually carried on to the corruption of public morals.
      HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION. A house or other place which is kept, used or
operated as a place for hire for prostitution purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-115) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   (1)   A person 18 years of age or over commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs, or procures or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
         (a)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
         (b)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to
affront or alarm any person; or
         (c)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of
the same or opposite sex.
      (2)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within this city to make an
indecent exposure of his or her person; to urinate or defecate in public view;
to commit any indecent or lewd act; to sell or offer for sale or to dispense in
any manner any obscene, lewd or indecent book, picture or other publication or
thing; to exhibit or perform any indecent, immoral, lewd or obscene play or
other representation; or in any public place to write, draw or make any
profane, obscene, indecent or lewd work, sentence, figure or design.
(Prior Code, § 2-116)
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or stealthily go upon the
premises of another in this city and look or peep into any window, door or
other opening in any building located thereon which is occupied as a place of
abode, or to go upon the premises of another for the purpose of looking or
peeping into any window, door or other opening in any building thereon which is
occupied as a place of abode.
(Prior Code, § 2-110) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05 STALKING.
   (A)   Any person who willfully and maliciously harasses another person with
the intent to terrify, threaten or intimidate commits the offense of stalking.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COURSE OF CONDUCT. A pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts of
following, detaining or restraining the personal liberty of or stalking the
person or repetitiously telephoning the person.
      HARASS. To engage in a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at
a specific person which seriously terrifies, threatens or intimidates such
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 2-111) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act shall have an affirmative defense
to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) above if the
device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as required by such
Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the owner or operator
had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted unlawful gambling
activity at any time such device was operated on the premises of the retail
establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Pub. Law No. 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833, or any
equipment, components, peripherals, software, hardware or accessories related
to electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices, be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the state’s Bingo Act, the state’s County and City
Lottery Act, the state’s Lottery and Raffle Act, the state’s Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the state’s Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the state’s Lottery Act
or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the state’s Racetrack Gaming Act.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal ordinance. Each day’s
maintenance of the same shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-701)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Construction and Repair
   
150.001   Building codes adopted by reference
   
150.002   Construction requirements
   
150.003   Electric wiring requirements
   
150.004   Electrical Inspector
Minimum Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards for Buildings
   
150.015   Definitions
   
150.016   Finding of need
   
150.017   Standard; applicability
   
150.018   Exemptions
   
150.019   Request for alternative; approval
   
150.020   Inspections; investigations
   
150.021   Building plans; submission for approval
   
150.022   Fees
   
150.023   When architect or engineer retained
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.035   Requirement
   
150.036   Limitation
   
150.037   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.038   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Moving Buildings
   
150.050   Definition
   
150.051   Permit required
   
150.052   Application; fee
   
150.053   Interference with poles, wires or pipes
   
150.054   Duties of permittees
   
150.055   No general licenses
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.070   Unsafe or dangerous buildings a nuisance
   
150.071   Standards for repairing, vacating or demolishing
   
150.072   Declaration of public nuisance
   
150.073   Building Inspector duties
   
150.074   Nuisance notice; abatement
   
150.075   Failure to comply
   
150.076   Disputes; hearings
   
150.077   Appeals
   
150.078   Immediate hazards
Buildin g Inspector
   
150.090   Power and authority
   
150.091   Right of entry
   
150.092   Permit cards
   
150.093   Time of inspection
   
150.094   Appeal from decision
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 150.001 BUILDING CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for
safe and stable design, methods of construction and uses of materials in
buildings hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired,
relocated and converted, and to provide certain minimum standards, provisions
and requirements for safe and fireproof installation, methods of connection and
uses of materials and the installation of electrical wiring and appliances, gas
pipe and fittings and plumbing and heating systems, the following building
codes are hereby adopted, to wit:
      (1)   2018 International Building Code;
      (2)   2018 International Mechanical Code;
      (3)   2018 Uniform Plumbing Code designated by the American National
Standards Institute as an American National Standard;
      (4)   2017 National Electric Code, or the current code adopted by the
state;
      (5)   2018 NPPA 101 Life Safety Code, or the current code adopted by the
state;
      (6)   The state’s Accessibility Guidelines;
      (7)   National Fuel Gas Code, or the current code adopted by the state;
      (8)   2018 International Residential Code; and
      (9)   2018 International Existing Building Code.
   (B)   Said standard codes are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference
in addition to all amendments as though printed in full herein, insofar as said
codes do not conflict with the state statutes. One copy of each code is on file
at the office of the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of all of said codes shall be controlling
throughout the city and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 8-201) (Ord. 301, passed 7-28-2003; Ord. 474, passed 4-29-2024)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.002 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect, construct or maintain a building or structure
in violation of or without complying with the regulations set out in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 ELECTRIC WIRING REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or suffer to remain
installed, within the corporate limits of the city, any interior building or
house electric wiring, including all connections thereto inside or outside,
unless such installations are in strict conformity with the statutes of the
state and unless they are in conformity with the most approved methods of
construction for safety of life and property. The regulations as laid down in
the National Electrical Code shall be prima facie evidence of said methods, and
said National Electrical Code is hereby incorporated and made a part of this
subchapter the same as though set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.004 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The office of Electrical Inspector is hereby created. The Zoning
Administrator is hereby designated as ex officio Electrical Inspector. The
Electrical Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of §
150.003 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
MINIMUM LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR BUILDINGS
§ 150.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION. Any construction added to an existing building which will increase
the floor area of that building by 5% or more.
   ARCHITECT or ENGINEER. Any person registered pursuant to Neb. RS 81-847.
   BUILDING. Any structure which utilizes or will utilize a heating system,
cooling system or domestic hot water system, including new or renovated
buildings and additions, but not including any structure which has a
consumption of traditional energy sources for all purposes not exceeding the
energy equivalent of one watt per square foot.
   FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building, expressed in square feet, which is
within the exterior face of the shell of the structure that is heated or
cooled.
   PRIME CONTRACTOR. The person, persons, entity or entities who has a contract
with the owner and is the one responsible for the overall construction of any
building or the installation of any component which affects the energy
efficiency of the building. PRIME CONTRACTOR shall also mean a property owner
who performs the work of a prime contractor.
   RENOVATION. Alterations on an existing building which will cost more than
50% of the replacement cost of such building at the time work is commenced, or
which was not previously heated or cooled for which a heating or cooling system
is now proposed, except that the restoration of historic buildings shall not be
included.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building three stories or less that is used
primarily as one or more dwelling units.
   STANDARD. Standard 90-75 of the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration
and Air Conditioning Engineers, Inc., as it existed on April 23, 1980.
   TRADITIONAL ENERGY SOURCES. Electricity, petroleum-based fuels, uranium,
coal and all nonrenewable forms of energy.
(Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 150.016 FINDING OF NEED.
   The city finds that there is a present and continuing need to provide for
the development and implementation of minimum lighting and thermal efficiency
standards for buildings to ensure coordination with federal policy under the
Energy Conservation Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6831 et seq. to promote the conservation of our dwindling energy resources and
to provide for the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 150.017 STANDARD; APPLICABILITY.
   The new standard shall apply to:
   (A)   New residential buildings on which construction is initiated on or
after April 1, 1981; and
   (B)   All other new buildings, or renovations of or additions to any
existing buildings, on which construction is initiated on or after January 1,
1982.
(Prior Code, § 8-303)
§ 150.018 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from this Act:
   (A)   Any building which has a peak design rate of energy usage for all
purposes of less than one watt, or three and four-tenths BTU per hour, per
square foot of floor area;
   (B)   Any building which is neither heated nor cooled;
   (C)   Any building or portion thereof which is owned by the United States of
America;
   (D)   Any mobile home as defined by Neb. RS 71-4603;
   (E)   Any manufactured housing unit as defined by Neb. RS 71-1557(1);
   (F)   Any building listed on the National Register of Historic Places; and
   (G)   All residential buildings.
(Prior Code, § 8-304)
§ 150.019 REQUEST FOR ALTERNATIVE; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any person who owns or constructs a building to which this subchapter
applies may request that an alternative building system, technique, equipment
design or building material be found equivalent to the Standard.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall make such determination if he or she
finds that the proposed alternative would not result in energy consumption
greater than would result from the strict application of the Standard. If the
Building Inspector fails to approve or disapprove the request within 60 days
from the date of filing, it shall be considered approved.
(Prior Code, § 8-305)
§ 150.020 INSPECTIONS; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or any person designated by him or her shall
conduct inspections and investigations necessary to enforce the Standard and
may, at reasonable hours, enter into any building and upon any premises within
its jurisdiction for the purpose of examination to determine compliance with
this subchapter. Inspections shall be conducted only after permission has been
granted by the owner or occupant, or after a warrant has been issued pursuant
to Neb. RS 29-830 to 29-835.
   (B)   During construction, the Building Inspector or person designated shall
make periodic inspections to assure compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-306)
§ 150.021 BUILDING PLANS; SUBMISSION FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the construction of, renovation of or addition to any
building covered by this subchapter, the prime contractor shall file sufficient
plans and specification with the Building Inspector to enable him or her to
make a determination whether such building will comply with the Standard.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall, within 30 days of the filing, approve
or disapprove the plans and specifications. If disapproved, the reasons shall
be set forth in writing to the prime contractor.
   (B)   If the Building Inspector determines that such construction,
renovation or addition will comply with the Standard, he or she shall issue a
written permit, which the prime contractor shall display in a conspicuous place
on the premises where construction work is to be done. No construction,
renovation or addition shall commence until a permit is issued and displayed as
required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.022 FEES.
   For building fees, see
Chapter 37 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) (Ord. 305, passed 10-30-2003; Ord. 333, passed 3-31-2005;
Ord. 470, passed 10-30-2023 )
§ 150.023 WHEN ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER RETAINED.
   If an architect or engineer is retained, the architect or engineer shall
place his or her state registration seal on all construction drawings, which
shall indicate that the design meets the Standard. The prime contractor shall
certify that he or she will build in accordance with the construction documents
prepared by the architect or engineer. This certification must accompany the
building plans submitted to the chief Building Inspector for approval.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.035 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building permit. The
application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk for
that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description of
the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the nature
of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the
names of the owner, architect and contractor and such other information as may
be requested thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed with
the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the City Council, and if they
are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all
other ordinances applicable thereto, the City Council shall authorize the City
Clerk to issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a permit fee set by the
Council by resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit
application procedures contained herein and those contained in any building
code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.036 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.037 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city’s corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.038 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by suitable barricades
or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or
refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and maintain such protections
shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building Inspector or
other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.999
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.050 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure designated, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property and used for residential, business,
mercantile, storage, industrial, institutional, assembly, educational or
recreational purposes. A structure with less than the following dimensions
shall not fall within this definition: 12 feet wide, 24 feet long and 15 feet
high.
(Prior Code, § 8-401)
§ 150.051 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building over, along or across any highway, street
or alley in the city without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-402) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 APPLICATION; FEE.
   Any person seeking the issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application for such permit with the City Clerk.
   (A)   Form. The application shall be made in writing upon forms provided by
the City Clerk and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Contents. The application shall set forth:
      (1)   A description of the building proposed to be moved, giving street
number, construction materials, dimensions, number of rooms and condition of
exterior and interior;
      (2)   If located in the city, a legal description of the lot from which
the building is to be moved, giving the lot, block and tract number;
      (3)   If located in the city, a legal description of the lot to which the
building is to be moved, giving lot, block and tract number;
      (4)   The portion of the lot to be occupied by the building when moved;
      (5)   The highways, streets and alleys over, along or across which the
building is proposed to be moved;
      (6)   Proposed moving date and hours; and
      (7)   Any additional information which the City Clerk shall find
necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   Accompanying papers.
      (1)   The owner of the building to be moved shall file with the
application sufficient evidence that the building and lot from which it is to
be moved are free of any encumbrances and that all taxes and any city charges
against the same are paid in full.
      (2)   The applicant, if other than the owner, shall file with the
application a copy of the bill of sale signed by the owner, or other sufficient
evidence that he or she is entitled to move the building.
      (3)   The applicant shall file with the application a certificate of
insurance providing coverage for both personal injury and property damage which
might occur during the moving of said building. The minimum amount of coverage
allowable shall be $10,000 of property damage coverage and $10,000 of personal
injury coverage. The City Council may require coverage in greater amounts if
deemed to be necessary.
   (D)   Fee. The application shall be accompanied by an administrative fee of
$25 and a permit fee in the amount of $100, which shall be paid to the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 303, passed 7-28-2003)
§ 150.053 INTERFERENCE WITH POLES, WIRES OR PIPES.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for any permittee, in moving a
building, to interfere with any electrical or telephone poles or wires, the
public service company or companies owning, using or operating such poles or
wires shall, upon such notice as is provided in their respective franchises, or
if no provision for notice is made therein, then upon 48 hours’ notice, be
present and assist or, if necessary, remove such poles and wires; and the
expense of said removal, as estimated, shall be paid in advance by the
applicant unless it is otherwise provided in said companies’ franchises.
   (B)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with any
water main or sewer main belonging to the city, notice in writing of the time
and route of such building moving operations shall be given to the Building
Inspector of the city, who shall proceed on behalf of the City Marshal as the
managing officers or public service companies are required to proceed in the
premises on behalf of the companies.
   (C)   The notice herein provided for shall be given to said city official or
public service company or companies by the licensed house mover.
(Prior Code, § 8-404)
§ 150.054 DUTIES OF PERMITTEES.
   Every permittee under this subchapter shall:
   (A)   Move a building only over streets designated for such use in the
written permit;
   (B)   Notify the City Clerk in writing of a desired change in moving date
and hours as proposed in the application;
   (C)   Notify the City Clerk in writing of any and all damage done to
property belonging to the city within 24 hours after the damage has occurred;
   (D)   If necessary to leave standing on the street during the night, to
cause red lights to be displayed on every side of the building in such a manner
as to warn the public of the obstruction;
   (E)   Erect and maintain barricades across the streets in such a manner as
to protect the public from damage or injury by reason of the removal of the
building;
   (F)   Remove the building from the city streets after four days of such
occupancy unless an extension is granted by the Mayor and the City Council;
   (G)   Comply with the building codes, the fire zone and any zoning
ordinances now existing or hereinafter adopted, and all other applicable
ordinances and laws;
   (H)   Within ten days from the removal of the building, the permittee shall
remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing grade at
the original site so that the premises is left in a safe and sanitary
condition; and
   (I)   Ensure that the sewer line at the former premises is plugged with a
concrete stopper, the water shut off, and the meter returned to the city water
office. The permittee shall notify the gas and electric service companies to
discontinue their services.
(Prior Code, § 8-405)
§ 150.055 NO GENERAL LICENSES.
   There shall be no license issued or general permit given to anyone to move
buildings at will or generally within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-406)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.070 UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS A NUISANCE.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any buildings or structures which have any or
all of the following defects are declared to be unsafe or dangerous buildings
or structures and a public nuisance:
      (1)   Those having walls or other vertical structural members that list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those showing 33% or more of damage or deterioration of the
supporting member or members, exclusive of the foundation;
      (3)   Those with improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or in
which the same are overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to have become
dangerous to life, safety or the general health and welfare of the occupants of
the city;
      (5)   Those which have become dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary or
which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that
they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause sickness or disease,
so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of those
living therein;
      (6)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in the case of fire
or panic, or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes or
other means of communication;
      (8)   Those having parts thereof which are so attached that they may fall
and injure persons or property;
      (9)   Those that are unsafe, unsanitary or dangerous to the health,
safety or general welfare of the people of the city because of their condition;
      (10)   Those having been inspected by any official or a professional
engineer appointed by the city which are, after inspection, deemed to be in
violation of any provision of any health rule or regulation or which are
structurally unsafe or unsound as found by any inspection; and
      (11)   Those existing in violation of any provision of this chapter, any
provision of any adopted fire prevention code or any provision of any
applicable health rule and regulation or other ordinances of the city,
including any building code(s) adopted by the city.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.071 STANDARDS FOR REPAIRING, VACATING OR DEMOLISHING.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance in determining
whether the structure or building should be repaired, vacated or demolished.
   (A)   If the unsafe or dangerous building or structure can reasonably be
repaired so that it will no longer exist in violation of any of the terms or
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be ordered to be repaired.
   (B)   If the unsafe or dangerous building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it
shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where an unsafe or dangerous building or structure cannot
reasonably be repaired so that it will no longer be in violation of the terms
or provisions of this subchapter, it shall be demolished. In all cases where
the unsafe or dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or erected in
violation of the applicable fire codes and regulations, it shall be demolished.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 150.072 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All unsafe or dangerous buildings or structures within the terms of this
subchapter are hereby declared to be nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated
or demolished as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.073 BUILDING INSPECTOR DUTIES.
   The Building Inspector, Chief of Police, duly appointed health official,
professional engineer or any other duly appointed designee of the City Council
shall:
   (A)   Inspect any building or structure within the jurisdictional limits of
the city for the purposes of determining whether any conditions exist which
render it dangerous or unsafe, as defined in this subchapter;
   (B)   Report to the City Council the results of any such inspection; and
   (C)   Appear at all hearings and testify as to the condition of the unsafe
or dangerous building or structure.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 150.074 NUISANCE NOTICE; ABATEMENT.
   If the Building Inspector, Chief of Police, duly appointed health official,
professional engineer or any other duly appointed designee of the City Council
finds that a building or structure is unsafe or dangerous and a nuisance, the
City Council shall, itself or through its designee:
   (A)   Notify by personal service or certified mail the owner, occupant,
lessee, mortgagee, agent or other persons having an interest in the building or
structure that it has been found to be an unsafe or dangerous building. The
notice will indicate whether the owner must vacate, repair or demolish the
building or structure;
   (B)   Set forth in the notice a description of the building or structure
deemed unsafe or dangerous, accompanied by a statement of the particulars which
make the building or structure unsafe or dangerous and an order requiring the
same to be put in such condition as to comply with the terms of this subchapter
within such length of time as is reasonable, but not to exceed 30 calendar days
from the date of the notice, unless extended by the City Council or its
designee for good cause shown;
   (C)   Place a sign on the building or structure found to be unsafe or
dangerous on its exterior near the main entrance, which shall set forth that
the building or structure is unsafe or dangerous for occupancy and use;
   (D)   Properly index a copy of such notice in the office of the county’s
Register of Deeds; and
   (E)   The notice described herein may be in the following form.
 
To: ________________, of the premises known and described as
____________________________________.
You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe or dangerous building and a
nuisance after inspection by ______________________________________. The cause
(s) for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 30 calendar days
from the date of this notice, or the City will proceed to do so. Appeal of this
determination may be made to the City Council, acting as the Board of Appeals,
by filing a request for a hearing with the Clerk within 14 calendar days from
the date of this notice.
 
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 150.075 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other person having
an interest in the building or structure shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with the notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe or dangerous and a
public nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified in the notice. A
statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the City Council,
which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment against the
property. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall
be collected in the manner provided for special assessments pursuant to state
law. In addition, the city may bring a civil action to recover the cost of the
work.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.076 DISPUTES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   In the event the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other
person having an interest in the building or structure determined dangerous
disagrees with or disputes the information contained in the notice, such person
shall notify the City Clerk by a written statement that sets forth the reasons
why the building or structure is not unsafe or dangerous and should not be
repaired or demolished. This written statement shall be made and received by
the City Clerk within 14 calendar days of the date of notice to the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent or other interested persons of the unsafe or
dangerous building. If written notice is made and received within 14 calendar
days, a hearing shall be held before the City Council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. The City Clerk shall notify the person requesting the
hearing, in writing, of the time, place and date of the regular monthly meeting
and shall place the name of the person on the agenda of such meeting.
   (B)   The hearing before the City Council, acting as a Board of Appeals,
shall be informal and not governed by the state’s Rules of Evidence or any
other formal rules of evidence. Such hearing shall be quasi-judicial in nature,
and any decision shall be based on the evidence presented at the hearing. The
person requesting the hearing may be represented by legal counsel, may present
evidence and may examine and copy, at his, her or its own expense, and not less
than three business days before the hearing, the records of the city regarding
the inspection and notice. The City Council need not make a written finding of
fact, but may make its pronouncement orally at the hearing, which such
pronouncement shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. The decision of
the City Council shall be final unless appealed to a court of competent
jurisdiction. Failure of the person to attend the hearing as scheduled shall
relieve the City Council of any further procedures before action is taken as
set forth in the notice.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 150.077 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may appeal the
decision to the District Court of the county. This appeal shall and must be
taken within 30 days of the pronouncement of the City Council’s decision.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 150.078 IMMEDIATE HAZARDS.
   Where any dangerous or unsafe building or structure poses an immediate
danger to the health, safety or general welfare of any person, the city may
summarily repair or demolish and remove the building or structure.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.090 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any. He or she shall
inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the city as often as
necessary to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall have
the power and authority to order, at the direction of the City Council, all
work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed in any city building and housing regulations. He or she
shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration or relocation when the City Council is satisfied that
no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour. This written order may be
served by any city police officer. In the event that the city has building and
housing regulations and the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the
chief city law enforcement officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.091 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.092 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card, which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on the
principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.093 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the city code: foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.094 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any city
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise set out herein, any person who shall violate or
refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter,
whether set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
a sum not exceeding that permitted by state law for violation of a municipal
ordinance for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.015 to 150.023 of this chapter shall be subject to a maximum sentence of
three months of imprisonment or a $500 fine, or both. In addition, the city
may, by an action in the District Court, enforce the provisions of §§
150.015 to 150.023 of this chapter through equity and injunctive processes.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply or interfere
with the enforcement of any provision of §§
150.070 to
150.078 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not to exceed $500 for any one offense. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such
failure to comply.
      (2)   In addition to any penalties or remedies afforded the city in §§
150.070 to 150.078 of this chapter, whenever an unsafe or dangerous building as
defined in §§
150.070 of this chapter exists, the city may proceed by a suit in equity in a
court of competent jurisdiction to seek to enjoin and abate the same as
provided by law.
      (3)   Whenever in any action it is established that an unsafe or
dangerous building exists, the court hearing the same may, together with any
fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment.
(Ord. 440, passed 8-5-2019)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Statutory authorization
   
151.03   Amendments
   
151.04   Findings of fact
   
151.05   Statement of purpose
   
151.06   Lands to which applicable
   
151.07   Enforcement Officer
   
151.08   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Appeal
Development Permits
   
151.25   Permit required
   
151.26   Land Use Administrator; duties
   
151.27   Application for permit
Floodplain Management and Regulations
   
151.40   Floodplain Overlay Zoning District established
   
151.41   Standards for floodplain development
   
151.42   Variance procedures
   
151.43   Conditions for variances
   
151.44   Nonconforming uses
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Land Use Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain outside of the floodway that, on
the average, is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of flood occurrence in any one year).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP or FIRM. An official map of a community on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the flood hazard boundaries and the
zones establishing insurance rates applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodplain conditions, such
as wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for the
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning districts. The original zoning district
designation does not change.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before start of construction of the improvement. This includes
structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual
repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. Any act or omission that constitutes an infraction as specified
in the city code, or any violation of any city ordinance constituting an
infraction. Persons shall be deemed guilty of a separate violation for each and
every day during any portion of which any violation is committed, continued or
permitted by such person after the notice of violation is issued and shall be
punished accordingly.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of this state has delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare. The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-
1022, as amended, has further assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer
and enforce floodplain management regulations to the county, city or village
with zoning jurisdiction over the flood-prone area. Therefore, the Mayor and
City Council ordains as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.03 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., provided, however, that no such action may be taken
until after a public hearing in relation thereto at which parties in interest
and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and
place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city. At least 30 days shall elapse between the date of this publication
and the public hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulations of this chapter are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program regulations as published
in 44 C.F.R. and the state’s 1983 Floodplain Management Act, being Neb. RS 31-
1001 et seq.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.04 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation, which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter uses a reasonable
method of analyzing flood hazards which consists of a series of interrelated
steps:
      (1)   Selection of a regulatory flood, which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated and the depth of inundation. The
base flood is selected for this chapter. It is representative of large floods
which are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this chapter. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one
year, as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administration’s Flood Insurance
Study, illustrative materials dated August 1, 1986, as amended;
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles based on a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood; and
      (3)   Delineation of the floodplain which is subject to inundation by the
base flood.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.05 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
151.04 of this chapter by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH APPLICABLE.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
identified on the city’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panel 310067B dated
August 1, 1986, as numbered and unnumbered Zone A. In all areas covered by this
chapter, no development shall be permitted except upon the issuance of a
floodplain permit to develop, granted by the City Council or its duly
designated representative, under such safeguards and restrictions as the City
Council or the designated representative may reasonably impose for the
promotion and maintenance of the general welfare and health of the inhabitants
of the community and where specifically noted in §
151.41 of this chapter.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.07 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Land Use Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community’s duly designated Enforcement Officer under this chapter.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.08 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the Floodplain Overlay District shall be determined
by scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map.
   (B)   Where interpretation is needed to the exact location of the boundaries
of the districts as shown on the official zoning map, as, for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions, the Enforcement Officer shall make the necessary interpretation. In
such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the
point in question shall be the governing factor in locating the district
boundary on the land.
   (C)   The person contesting the location of the district boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her case to the Board of
Zoning Adjustment and to submit his or her own technical evidence, if he or she
so desires.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified special flood hazard areas of this community, no
development shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
floodplain district boundaries or land uses permitted within the district will
be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.13 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the Land
Use Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance directly
to the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
§ 151.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for development as defined in §
151.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.26 LAND USE ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Land Use Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The duties of the Land Use Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
      (3)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development
to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (5)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (6)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas;
      (7)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been floodproofed; and
      (8)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the Land
Use Administrator shall be presented certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.27 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent, who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority; and
      (6)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Land Use Administrator.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT AND REGULATIONS
§ 151.40 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby established as the Floodplain Overlay District as identified in the
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and accompanying map(s). Within this district,
all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and those standards of the
underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements and other development(s), including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered Zone A, unless the
conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered Zone A on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered Zone A shall be subject to all development provisions
of this chapter. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the community
shall utilize any base flood elevation or floodplain data currently available
from federal, state or other sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within special flood hazard areas unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any location as shown on the
Flood Insurance Study.
   (D)   New construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings and other developments shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, and on-site waste
disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination;
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages, and with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
and
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or floodproofed up
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (E)   (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in times of
flooding, buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal
or plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation, or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development are required
to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems, are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
lesser, include within such proposals the base flood elevation.
   (G)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of residential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (H)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, to be floodproofed so that below that level the structure
is watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (H) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Land Use Administrator
as set forth in §
151.26(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (I)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for the
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be not
higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (J)   Within any floodplain, the construction or placement of new or
substantially improved manufactured homes shall be prohibited.
   (K)   Within AH Zones, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes
shall be required to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (L)   (1)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood
hazard areas on the community’s official map shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for manufactured homes established
in division (J) above.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is READY FOR HIGHWAY USE if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect-type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (M)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.06 of this chapter are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply
within AO Zones.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade
at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the
community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Such certification
shall be provided to the Official as set forth in §
151.26(B)(7) of this chapter.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.42 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment, as established by the City Council,
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Land Use Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment
or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in
Neb. RS 19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.43 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (B) to (E) below have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (E)   (1)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature
of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
      (2)   Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.44 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Land Use Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months; and
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except if it is
reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the
cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state Inventory of Historic Places, provided that the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall constitute
a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than
$500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City Council or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action is as necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 359, passed 7-30-2007; Ord. 473, passed 3-25-2024)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Zoning Code incorporated by reference
§ 152.01 ZONING CODE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code of the city, as amended, is hereby incorporated by reference
and enforceable as if herein set out in full.
(Prior Code, Ch. 9) (Ord. 377, passed 4-27-2011; Ord. 391, passed 8-26-2013;
Ord. 413, passed 7-25-2016; Ord. 425, passed 4-30-2018; Ord. 460, passed 2-20-
2023)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
 
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section        Code Section
9-701                  134.06
10-101—10-143        35.12
10-606—10-612        35.12
Chapter 11, Article 1  32.46
11-101                 33.26
11-104                 33.25
11-105                 33.25
11-109                 33.25
11-110                 33.25
11-111                 33.25
11-112                 33.25
11-113                 33.25
11-114                 33.25
11-115                 33.25
11-116                 33.25
11-117                 33.25
11-118                 33.25
13-310                 92.036
13-311                 92.036
13-312                 92.036
13-313                 92.036
13-314                 92.036
13-403                 92.033
13-503                 35.01
13-504                 35.33
13-505                 35.33
13-506                 35.34
13-507                 35.34
13-508                 35.35;
                       35.61
13-509                 35.35;
                       35.60
13-509.01              35.32
13-509.02              35.32
13-510                 35.38
13-511                 35.39
                       35.34;
13-518—13-522        35.35;
                       35.39
13-519                 34.04
13-606                 35.02
13-609                 35.15
13-903                 35.05
13-1802                32.47
16-209                 71.03
16-318(3)              31.05
16-691.01              35.11
16-714—16-716        35.10
17-105                 33.04
17-106                 33.04
                       30.15;
                       30.17;
17-107                 31.01;
                       31.08;
                       32.48
17-108                 33.40
17-108.02              30.16;
                       31.03
17-110                 30.16
17-111                 30.16
17-112                 30.16
17-113                 30.16
17-114                 30.16
17-117                 30.16
17-118                 32.47
17-119                 31.11
                       32.04;
17-121                 91.01;
                       91.03
17-129                 131.01
17-138                 93.010
17-142                 131.02;
                       131.03
17-147                 32.20
17-148                 30.32
17-150                 31.14
17-503                 92.030
17-503.01              92.030
17-503.02              92.031
17-505                 10.99;
                       30.50
17-506                 35.55
17-507                 35.56
17-508                 92.071
17-509                 92.002
17-509—17-521        92.055
17-510—17-512        92.002
17-513—17-524        92.002
17-524                 92.055
                       93.003;
                       93.012;
17-526                 93.050;
                       93.057;
                       93.059
17-538                 50.05
17-540                 35.11
17-547                 93.003;
                       93.012
17-548                 93.012;
                       93.013
                       91.18;
17-555                 92.004;
                       131.02—
                       131.04
17-556                 131.01;
                       133.55
                       92.005;
17-557                 92.082;
                       131.02;
                       131.03
17-557.01              92.005
17-558                 92.074
17-559                 92.073;
                       92.074
17-563                 91.16;
                       91.19
17-567                 92.003;
                       92.070
17-568                 31.14
17-568.01              31.14;
                       35.03
17-568.02              35.03
17-602                 34.03
                       31.01;
17-604                 33.25;
                       33.40
17-605                 31.04
17-606                 31.05
17-606(2)              31.05
17-607                 35.09
17-608                 35.11
17-609                 35.11
17-610                 31.06
17-611                 33.40
17-612                 33.40
                       30.53;
17-613                 30.55—
                       30.57;
                       35.03
                       10.16;
17-614                 30.53;
                       30.54;
                       30.58
17-615                 30.56
17-616                 30.54
17-701                 35.30
17-702                 35.08;
                       35.59
17-703                 35.06
17-706                 35.36
17-708                 35.04
17-709                 35.04
17-710                 35.07
17-711                 35.04
17-714                 35.05
17-715                 35.05
17-720                 35.10
17-801                 32.06
17-802                 32.06
17-802.01              32.06
17-803                 35.11
17-805                 32.06
17-806                 32.06
17-807                 32.06
17-808                 32.06
17-810                 32.06
17-919                 31.14
17-920                 131.04
17-925.01              50.05
17-948                 90.01
17-948—17-952        90.01
17-949                 90.01
17-951                 90.01
17-952                 32.05;
                       90.01
17-953 et seq.         32.20
17-953                 92.032
17-953.01              92.032
17-954                 92.032
17-1001                32.02;
                       91.16
18-131                 30.55
18-132                 30.50
18-305—18-312        33.41
18-412.01              35.03
18-503                 50.05
18-1001—18-1006      92.030
18-1214                35.62
18-1216                35.06
18-1701                31.04
18-1705                92.071
                       91.16;
18-1720                130.03;
                       133.02
18-1722                10.99
18-1743                150.037
18-1748                92.077
18-1751                92.002
18-1752                91.20
18-1756                35.03
18-1801—18-1805      35.12
18-2001—18-2004      92.072
18-2003                92.072
18-2005                92.071
18-2101 et seq.        32.08
18-2102.01             32.02
18-2715                32.02
18-2803                35.40
18-2804                35.02;
                       35.40
18-2805                35.40
18-2806                35.40
18-2807                35.40
18-2808                35.40
18-3301                31.14
19-710                 91.17
19-901 et seq.         32.03
19-901                 32.03
19-901—19-914        32.03
19-901—19-915        32.03
19-903—19-904.01     32.03
19-907                 32.03
19-908                 32.03
19-909                 32.03
19-910                 32.03
19-912                 32.03;
                       151.42
19-912.01              32.03
19-915                 30.58
19-922                 30.50
19-926                 32.02
19-927                 32.02
19-929(3)              32.03
19-1101                31.05
19-1102                31.04
19-1103                31.04;
                       31.05
19-1301                35.08
19-1302                35.08
19-1303                35.08
19-1304                35.08
19-1309                35.57
19-1310                35.57
19-1311                35.57
19-1312                35.57
19-2401                92.002
19-2408—19-2415      92.002
19-2416                92.071
19-2417—19-2419      92.055
19-2428—19-2431      92.002
19-2902                35.02
19-2903                35.02
19-2904                35.02
19-2905                35.02
19-2906—19-2909      35.02
19-3701                30.57
20-203                 93.060
23-114.02              32.03
23-122                 31.04
25-505.01              34.10
25-1801                50.04
25-21,275              50.04
25-21,276              50.04
25-21,277              50.04
25-21,278              50.04
25-2703                30.50
28-109                 93.999
Chapter 28, Article 3  111.019
28-318                 134.01;
                       134.03
Chapter 28, Article 4  111.019
28-431                 133.40
28-515.02              50.03
28-519                 130.01
                       93.060;
28-520                 130.02;
                       130.99
                       93.060;
28-521                 130.02;
                       130.99
28-523                 90.02;
                       133.05
28-609                 132.01
28-610                 132.02
Chapter 28, Article 7  111.019
Chapter 28, Article 8  111.019
28-801                 134.01
28-806                 134.03
28-830                 134.01
28-831                 134.01
28-833                 134.06
28-903                 132.03
28-904                 132.04
28-906                 132.05
28-907                 132.06
28-908                 132.20
Chapter 28, Article 10 111.019
28-1008                93.010;
                       93.060
28-1009                93.010
28-1012                93.010
28-1013                93.010
Chapter 28, Article 11 111.019
28-1101                134.06
28-1102                134.06
28-1103                134.06
28-1104                134.06
28-1107                134.06
28-1108                134.06
28-1109                134.06
28-1110                134.06
28-1111                134.06
28-1112                134.06
28-1113                134.06
28-1117                134.06
Chapter 28, Article 12 111.019
28-1241                94.048
28-1241—28-1252      94.048
28-1303                133.07
28-1304                133.03
                       91.16;
28-1321                130.03;
                       133.01
28-1418                133.20
28-1419                133.21
28-1420                112.01
28-1420—28-1429      112.02
28-1421                112.01
28-1422                112.02
28-1423                112.03
28-1424                112.04
28-1425                112.04;
                       112.07
28-1426                112.05
28-1427                133.21;
                       133.22
28-1428                112.06
28-1429                112.07
28-1465                32.47
28-1466                32.47
28-1472                32.47
28-1601                134.06
29-215                 32.47
29-422—29-429        93.010
Chapter 29, Article 8  93.037
29-830—29-835        150.020
29-4001 et seq.        36.01
29-4001.01             36.01
29-4003                36.01
29-4015 et seq.        36.02
31-1001—31-1022      151.02
32-101 et seq.         30.30
32-109                 30.16
32-110                 34.03
32-115                 34.03
32-404                 34.01;
                       34.05
32-405                 34.04;
                       34.10
32-533                 30.15
32-556                 34.01
32-557                 34.06
32-559                 34.04
32-560                 30.17;
                       30.34
32-560—32-572        30.17;
                       30.34
32-561                 30.17;
                       30.34
32-562                 34.10
32-567—32-570        34.10
32-568                 30.17;
                       30.34
32-569                 30.34
32-574                 34.10
32-603                 30.16
32-604                 30.16
32-606                 34.07
32-607                 34.07
32-608                 34.08;
                       34.09
32-615                 34.09
32-616                 34.09
32-617                 34.09
32-618                 34.09
32-621                 34.09
32-622                 34.07
32-625                 34.07
32-625(2)              34.09
32-627                 34.07;
                       34.09
32-628                 34.09;
                       92.030
32-628—32-631        35.58
32-629                 34.09;
                       34.10
32-630                 34.09;
                       34.10
32-710                 34.09
32-802                 34.02;
                       35.58
32-918                 34.11
32-952—32-959        34.04
32-1202                34.04
32-1301                34.10
32-1302                34.10
32-1303                34.10
32-1304                34.10
32-1305                34.10
32-1306                34.10
32-1307                34.10
                       30.17;
32-1308                30.34;
                       34.10
32-1309                34.10
32-1524                34.11
32-1525                34.11
33-139.01              32.23
33-1001 et seq.        151.03
33-141                 31.05
35-102                 32.23
35-103                 32.23
35-108                 32.23
37-1254.01             32.47
37-1254.02             32.47
39-301                 131.03
39-302                 131.03
39-307                 133.04
39-311                 70.13
39-2512                31.11
43-248                 134.01
45-623                 35.13
46-1212                92.035
48-115                 32.23
48-1503                35.03
49-1408                33.41
49-1425                33.41
49-1499.03—49-14,103 33.41
49-1499.04             33.41
49-14,102              33.41
49-14,103.01           33.41
49-14,103.02           33.41
49-14,103.03           33.41
49-14,103.04           33.41
49-14,103.05           33.41
49-14,103.06           33.41
51-201                 35.58
51-201—51-219        32.01;
                       90.16
51-201.01              90.20
51-202                 32.01
51-204                 32.01
51-205                 90.16
51-206                 90.19
51-207                 90.16
51-210                 90.17
                       90.16;
51-211                 90.20;
                       90.21
51-212                 90.20
51-213                 90.22
51-214                 90.23
51-215                 35.08;
                       90.24
51-216                 35.08;
                       90.18
51-501                 35.58
52-601.01 to 52-605    133.40
                       111.003;
                       111.015—
                       111.021;
                       111.024;
53-101 et seq.         111.026;
                       111.027;
                       111.041;
                       111.070;
                       111.071
53-103                 133.24
53-103.01—53-103.51  111.001;
                       133.24
53-103.23              133.23
53-116.01              111.021
53-118                 111.047
53-123.04(3)           133.25
53-123.11(1)(c)        133.25
53-123.12              111.020
53-124                 111.020;
                       111.023
53-124(5)              111.022
53-124(6)(a)(iii)      111.049
53-124.01              111.020
53-124.12              111.023
53-124.15              111.040
53-124.17              111.020
53-125                 111.019
53-129                 111.020
53-131                 111.020
53-132                 111.020
53-132(3)(a)           111.016
53-133                 111.020;
                       111.040
53-134                 111.020
                       111.020;
53-134.03              111.047;
                       111.052
53-135.01              111.020;
                       111.022
53-148                 111.024
53-167.02              111.058
53-167.03              111.058
53-168.06              111.015
53-175                 111.018
53-177                 111.040
53-177.01              111.040
53-178                 111.045
53-180.01              133.23
53-180.02              133.24
53-180.05              133.23
53-183                 111.050
53-184                 111.051
53-186                 111.003
53-186(2)              111.003
53-186.01              111.003
53-194.03              111.018
53-1,101               111.025
53-1,102               111.026
53-1,121               111.004
53-401—53-409        133.24
54-601                 93.057
54-603                 37.01;
                       93.050
54-605                 93.053
54-606                 93.057
54-607                 93.003
54-617                 93.060
54-618                 93.060
54-619                 93.060
54-620                 93.060
54-622.01              93.060;
                       93.999
54-623                 93.060
54-907—54-912        93.011
54-911                 93.011
54-912                 93.011
55-133                 70.01
56-602                 93.057
Chapter 60, Article 1  73.16
60-169                 133.40
Chapter 60, Article 3  73.16
                       35.62;
60-301                 72.09;
                       133.40
60-311.14              72.46
60-376                 133.41
60-3,104               35.62
Chapter 60, Article 4  73.16
60-462                 70.51
60-4,126               73.46
60-4,163               32.47
60-4,164               32.47
60-4,182               70.05
Chapter 60, Article 5  73.16
60-606—60-676        70.01
60-607                 70.01
60-610                 70.01
60-613                 70.01
60-624                 70.01;
                       73.45
60-631                 70.01
60-638                 70.01
60-646                 70.01
60-654                 70.01
60-656                 70.01
60-658.01              70.01
60-661                 70.01
60-669                 70.01
60-670                 70.01
60-671                 70.01
60-672                 70.01
60-676                 70.01
60-678                 70.46
                       70.47;
60-680                 71.02;
                       72.01
60-681                 70.48
60-682                 70.99
60-682.01              71.99
60-683                 70.50;
                       70.51
60-684—60-694.01     70.99
60-689                 70.99
60-6,108               70.49
60-6,110               70.52
60-6,114               70.17;
                       71.24
60-6,118               70.01
60-6,119 to 60-6,121   71.60
60-6,119               70.03
60-6,121               70.02
60-6,129               71.01
60-6,130               71.02
60-6,131               71.21
60-6,138               71.20
60-6,142               73.01
60-6,148               71.23
60-6,160               71.61
                       71.22;
60-6,162               71.61;
                       71.63
60-6,164               72.02
60-6,165               72.66
60-6,166               72.03
60-6,167               72.12
60-6,168               72.14
60-6,185               71.40
60-6,186               71.41
60-6,187               71.41;
                       71.43
                       71.41;
60-6,188               71.43;
                       71.99
60-6,189               71.42
60-6,190               71.43
60-6,196               32.47;
                       70.07
60-6,197               32.47;
                       70.07
60-6,211.01            32.47
60-6,211.02            32.47
60-6,211.08            111.003;
                       133.25
60-6,212               71.45
60-6,213               70.05
60-6,215               70.05
60-6,243               70.11
60-6,250               70.32
60-6,286               70.14;
                       70.30
60-6,288               70.32
60-6,288—60-6,290    70.17
60-6,294               70.17
60-6,304               70.11
60-6,305               71.41;
                       71.43
60-6,313               71.41;
                       71.43
60-6,355               73.45
60-6,356               73.46
60-6,371               70.14
60-1901                133.40
60-1902                133.40
60-1903                133.40
60-1903.01             133.40
60-1903.02             133.40
60-1904                133.40
60-1905                133.40
60-1906                133.40
60-1907                133.40
60-1908                133.40
60-1909                133.40
60-1911                133.40
60-2410                133.40
70-624.04              33.41
70-1601                50.01
70-1601—70-1615      50.03
70-1602                50.02
70-1605                50.02
70-1606                50.02
70-1607                50.02
70-1608—70-1614      50.02
70-1615                50.02
70-2103                130.02
71-423                 111.004
71-1557(1)             150.018
71-1637                35.58
71-1908 et seq.        36.01
71-4401                93.030
71-4402                93.031
71-4404                93.031
71-4405                93.031
71-4406                93.032
71-4407                93.033
71-4408                93.012;
                       93.034
71-4410                93.037
71-4411                93.034
71-4412                93.037;
                       93.050
71-4603                133.40;
                       150.018
Chapter 72, Article 14 92.032
73-101 et seq.         35.03
Chapter 75, Article 3  133.25
76-704—76-724        90.17
77-1601                35.60
77-1606                35.58
77-1632                35.60
77-1633                35.60;
                       35.61
77-1702                35.15
77-2201                31.05
77-2201—77-2215      31.05
77-2202                31.05
77-2209                31.05
77-2210                31.05
77-2212                31.05
77-2337                35.08
77-2341                35.11
77-2362                35.09
77-2363                35.09
77-2364                35.09
77-2365.01             35.09;
                       35.10
77-2366                35.09;
                       35.10
77-2386                35.09
77-3442                35.58;
                       90.01
77-3443                35.58
77-3444                34.04;
                       35.58
Chapter 79             36.01
80-202                 35.58
81-145—81-162        35.03
81-201                 93.010
81-501.01—81-531     32.28
81-506                 32.32
81-512                 32.28
81-520.01              94.004
81-829.51              35.39
81-829.65              32.47
81-847                 150.015
81-1438                31.08
81-1439—81-1446      31.08
81-1444                32.46
81-3423                92.035
81-3445                92.035
81-3449                92.035
81-3453                92.035
84-712—84-712.09     31.04;
                       31.05
84-712(2)              31.04
84-1408                33.02
84-1409                33.01;
                       35.61
84-1410                33.07;
                       33.08
                       33.02;
84-1411                33.03;
                       33.05;
                       33.06
84-1411(7)             33.02
84-1412                33.09
84-1413                33.11;
                       33.13
                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
0-008              10.10
0-009              10.05;
                   10.06
1-101              30.01
1-103              30.30
1-104              30.16
1-107              30.02
1-109              30.31
1-110              33.40
1-201              31.01
1-206              31.03
1-209              31.10
1-210              31.11
1-211              31.12
1-212              31.13
1-301              11.01
1-304              33.02;
                   33.99
1-305              33.04
1-306              33.10
1-308              30.35
1-504              35.34
1-603              32.49
1-604              32.49
1-702              32.02
1-704              32.02
1-705              32.02
1-801              32.04
1-803              91.02
1-804              91.21;
                   91.99
1-901              32.07
1-902              32.07
1-903              32.07
1-904              32.07
1-905              32.07
1-906              32.07
1-907              92.095
1-908              92.096
1-909              92.097
1-910              92.098
1-911              92.099
1-912              92.100
1-913              92.101
1-914              92.102
1-915              92.103
1-916              92.104
1-917              92.105
1-918              92.106
1-919              92.107
1-920              92.108
1-1001             90.15
1-1002             90.25
1-1003             90.29
1-1004             90.26
1-1005             90.27
1-1007             90.29
1-1101             32.08
1-1102             32.08
1-1103             32.08
1-1104             32.08
                   30.99;
                   31.99;
1-1201             32.99;
                   33.99;
                   34.99;
                   35.99
2-101              133.25
2-102              131.05
2-103              131.09
2-105              130.05
2-106              130.04
2-108              131.06
2-110              134.04
2-111              134.05
2-115              134.02
2-116              134.03
2-121              133.06
2-124              130.09
2-127              131.08
2-130              131.07
2-131              130.07
2-132              133.42
2-133              133.26
2-134              133.08
2-201              131.10
2-202              131.10
2-203              131.10
2-204              131.10
2-205              131.99
2-303              93.052
2-305              93.051
2-307              93.055;
                   93.999
2-308              93.060
2-312              93.060
2-314              93.034
2-315              93.035
2-317              93.007
2-321              93.056
2-322              93.058
2-323              93.014
2-324              93.016
2-401              93.075
2-402              93.076
2-403              93.076
2-404              93.077
2-405              93.078
2-406              93.079
2-501              93.002
2-502              93.001
2-503              93.004
2-504              93.005
2-505              93.999
2-604              91.16
2-605              91.16
                   36.99;
                   91.99;
                   93.999;
2-701              130.99;
                   131.99;
                   133.99;
                   134.99
3-102              71.03
3-104              71.62
3-105              71.63
3-106              71.61
3-107              71.61
3-108              71.22
3-109              71.24
3-110              71.21
3-111              71.64
3-112              71.05
3-113              71.60
3-116              73.99;
                   Ch. 74, Schd. II
3-118              71.06
3-119              71.26
3-120              71.27
3-121              70.13
3-123              70.14
3-124              71.45
3-125              70.04
3-126              70.05
3-127              70.07;
                   70.52
3-128              70.06
3-129              70.50
3-133              71.04
3-134              70.15
3-135              71.25
3-136              70.10
3-137              70.08
3-138              70.09
3-139              70.30
3-140              70.11
3-141              70.12
3-142              90.03;
                   90.99
3-206              133.99
3-302              72.12
3-305              72.30
3-306              72.31
3-307              72.32
3-308              72.16
3-313              72.15
3-314              72.05
3-319              72.10
3-321              72.09
3-322              72.46
3-323              72.47
3-324              72.45
3-325              72.48
3-326              72.49
3-327              72.50
3-328              72.51
3-329              72.52
3-330              72.53;
                   72.99
3-401              73.01
3-402              73.02
3-501              73.15
3-502              73.16
3-503              73.30
3-504              73.31
3-505              73.32;
                   73.99
3-506              73.33
3-507              73.34;
                   73.99
4-101              110.01
4-102              110.02
4-103              110.03
4-104              110.04
4-105              110.04
4-106              110.05
4-107              110.06
4-108              110.99
4-201              110.20
4-202              110.21
4-203              110.22
4-204              110.23
4-303              111.016
4-304              111.002
4-305              111.049
4-306              111.003
4-307              111.017
4-310              111.027
4-311              111.027
4-314              111.020
4-315              111.022
4-316              111.022
4-317              111.053
4-318              111.041
4-319              111.042
4-320              111.054
4-321              111.056
4-322              111.057
4-323              111.055
4-324              111.046
4-325              111.048
4-326              111.043
4-329              111.044
4-401              114.01
4-402              114.01
4-504              113.01
4-601              50.15
4-602              50.16
4-603              50.17
                   50.99;
                   110.99;
4-701              111.99;
                   113.99;
                   114.99
5-203              92.078
5-205              92.080
5-210              92.007
5-211              92.015
5-212              92.074
5-301              92.050;
                   92.055
5-302              92.053
5-303              92.053
5-304              92.053
5-305              92.055
5-307              92.056
5-308              92.057
5-309              92.058
5-310              92.051
5-311              92.013
5-401              92.077
5-402              92.077
5-403              92.077
5-404              92.077
5-405              92.999
5-501              92.999
6-101              51.002
6-102              51.001
6-103              51.016
6-104              51.017
6-105              51.020
6-106              51.023
6-107              51.021
6-108              51.022
6-109              51.024
6-110              51.040
6-112              51.041
6-115              51.019
6-116              51.115
6-117              51.055
6-118              51.056
6-119              51.015
6-120              51.004
6-121              51.018
6-122              51.025
6-123              51.057
6-124              51.058
6-125              51.070
6-126              51.071
6-127              51.072
6-128              51.073
6-129              51.074
6-130              51.075
6-131              51.076
6-132              51.077
6-133              51.078
6-134              51.079
6-136              51.080
6-137              51.003
6-138              51.095
6-139              51.096
6-140              51.097
6-141              51.098
6-142              51.099
6-143              51.100
6-144              51.101
6-201              50.30
6-202              50.31
6-203              50.32
6-204              50.33
6-205              50.34
6-301              52.01
6-302              52.02
6-303              52.16
6-304              52.17
6-305              52.15
6-306              52.18
6-307              52.03
6-308              52.19
6-309              52.20
6-310              52.21
6-311              52.22
6-312              52.24
6-313              52.40
6-314              52.41
6-318              52.23
6-319              52.55
6-320              52.56
6-321              52.57
6-322              52.26
6-323              52.25
6-324              52.04
6-401              53.01
6-402              53.05
6-403              53.02
6-404              53.03
6-405              53.04
6-501              54.01
6-502              54.02
6-503              54.03
6-504              54.04
6-505              54.05
6-507              54.06
6-508              54.07
6-509              54.20
6-510              54.21
6-514              54.08
6-515              54.22
                   50.99;
                   51.999;
6-601              52.99;
                   53.99;
                   54.99
7-101              32.20
7-103              32.21
7-104              32.22
7-105              32.28
7-106              32.29
7-110              32.27
7-111              32.30
7-114              132.22
7-115              132.23
7-117              132.21
7-118              132.24
7-119              70.16
7-120              132.25
7-121              132.26
7-201              94.020
7-202              94.021
7-203              94.022
7-204              94.023
7-205              94.024
7-206              94.025
7-207              94.026
7-208              94.027
7-301              94.075
7-302              94.076
7-303              94.077
7-304              94.078
7-305              94.079
7-306              94.005
7-307              94.006
7-308              94.001
7-309              94.007
7-310              94.003
7-312              94.002
7-401              94.060
7-402              94.061
7-403              94.062
7-501              94.048
7-601              70.52
7-601              94.999
7-601              132.99
8-201              150.001
8-202              150.002
8-203              150.003
8-204              150.004
8-301              150.016
8-302              150.015
8-303              150.017
8-304              150.018
8-305              150.019
8-306              150.020
8-307              150.021
8-308              150.022
8-309              150.023
8-310              150.999
8-401              150.050
8-402              150.051
8-403              150.052
8-404              150.053
8-405              150.054
8-406              150.055
8-501              150.999
Ch. 9              152.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
101-03   3-29-2001   93.016
2004-04  4-26-2004   111.070
2009-08  10-26-2009  36.31
2010-03  6-28-2010   36.32
2010-04  7-26-2010   91.16
2011-06  10-24-2011  Ch. 74, Schd. III
2012-01  7-30-2012   36.15
2014-02  2-27-2014   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
2015-07  10-26-2015  Ch. 74, Schd. IV
2015-08  12-21-2015  Ch. 74, Schd. IV
2016-05  5-31-2016   36.17
2016-11  10-24-2016  Ch. 74, Schd. III
2016-12  10-24-2016  Ch. 74, Schd. III
2017-03  3-27-2017   Ch. 74, Schd. III
2017-12  9-25-2017   Ch. 74, Schd. III
2019-08  12-18-2019  35.16
2021-09  8-9-2021    36.17
2022-03  4-27-2022   Ch. 74, Schd. III
2022-05  5-23-2022   36.30
2023-02  4-24-2023   111.071
2023-06  6-26-2023   36.16
2024-07  4-29-2024   50.06
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
390      - -         51.115—
                     51.118
                     51.095—
274      1-27-2000   51.100;
                     133.08
279      3-29-2001   93.056
280      3-29-2001   54.22
287      12-5-2001   92.074
288      12-5-2001   72.51
286      12-12-2001  31.01
289      3-28-2002   92.078
292      7-31-2002   91.16
295      11-21-2002  30.35
295      11-21-2002  30.35
296      11-21-2002  35.34
301      7-28-2003   150.001
303      7-28-2003   150.052
305      10-30-2003  150.022
307      1-29-2004   90.03;
                     90.99
309      3-25-2004   35.09
310      6-28-2004   73.17;
                     73.99
311      6-28-2004   73.31
314      7-26-2004   52.41
320      1-27-2005   73.99;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. II
321      1-27-2005   51.101
323      1-27-2005   111.17
324      1-27-2005   30.30
325      1-27-2005   91.16
327      2-24-2005   51.021
329      2-24-2005   51.070
330      2-24-2005   51.097
331      2-24-2005   52.15
332      2-24-2005   54.01
333      3-31-2005   150.022
340      8-29-2005   32.02
                     55.01;
338      9-29-2005   55.02;
                     55.05
348      3-27-2006   33.13
349      3-27-2006   92.073
                     151.01—
                     151.13;
                     151.25—
359      7-30-2007   151.27;
                     151.40—
                     151.44;
                     151.99
360      8-27-2007   92.083;
                     92.999
361      8-27-2007   70.31;
                     70.99
376      11-29-2010  35.63
377      4-27-2011   152.01
387      9-24-2012   93.056
391      8-26-2013   152.01
392      8-26-2013   92.077
400      9-29-2014   55.02
404      1-27-2015   30.30
408      9-14-2015   92.077
409      2-29-2016   111.017
                     72.11;
411      3-28-2016   73.99;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. I
413      7-25-2016   152.01
423      1-29-2018   54.05
                     73.45—
424      1-29-2018   73.49;
                     73.99
428      3-26-2018   72.05
425      4-30-2018   152.01
426      4-30-2018   91.15
427      5-31-2018   111.049
437      5-28-2019   94.040—
                     94.047
439      8-5-2019    91.15
                     150.070—
440      8-5-2019    150.078;
                     150.999
448      8-9-2021    32.02
449      8-9-2021    91.16;
                     91.99
451      12-20-2021  55.03
453      12-20-2021  11.02;
                     11.03
454      10-3-2022   93.005
459      12-19-2022  133.08
460      2-20-2023   152.01
462      3-27-2023   35.14
                     36.01—
464      6-26-2023   36.03;
                     36.99
466      9-25-2023   55.02—
                     55.05
                     37.01;
                     54.21;
470      10-30-2023  55.02;
                     55.05;
                     150.022
                     90.40—
475      - -2024     90.47;
                     90.99
471      3-25-2024   50.06
                     151.01—
                     151.13;
                     151.25—
473      3-25-2024   151.27;
                     151.40—
                     151.44;
                     151.99
474      4-29-2024   150.001
477      5-30-2024   113.15—
                     113.19
 
 
