RANDOLPH, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement Contains:
Local Legislation current through Ordinance No. 750, passed 2-12-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Randolph Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The city adopting this
code.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Cedar County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including
ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect
unless repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
      (1)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other
public places;
      (2)   Annexing or detaching territory;
      (3)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
      (4)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
      (5)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
      (6)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
      (7)   Appropriating money;
      (8)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
      (9)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   (B)   All ordinances codified in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless repealed expressly.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference“ following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
   (B)   An ordinance repealing, modifying, or superseding any provision of
this code may be codified as part of this code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICY
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Salaries
Mayor
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.16   Powers and duties
   
30.17   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.30   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.31   President; Acting President
   
30.32   Standing committees
   
30.33   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.34   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.45   Grant of power
   
30.46   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.47   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.48   Ordinances; style and title
   
30.49   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, and bylaws
   
30.50   Publication or posting
   
30.51   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.52   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.53   Amendments and revisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 SALARIES.
   The annual salary of the Mayor shall be $3,300, the annual salary of the
Council President shall be $2,400, and the annual salary of each Council member
shall be $2,100, which annual salaries shall be paid at the December meeting of
each year.
(Prior Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 588, passed 11-5-1996; Ord. 635, passed 11-5-2008)
MAYOR
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
§ 30.16 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to
attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected
to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction, and the
Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the
Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the officers
and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of the city
and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The City Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of
any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this
section, the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The
Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill,
and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed
by the City Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the City Council, in writing, touching any subject or
matter pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.17 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed,
or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the City Council assumes the office of Mayor
for the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.30 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All City Council members shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the City Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects City Council members at large as provided in
Neb. RS 32- 554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than
six wards, as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall
contain, as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects City Council members at large as provided in
Neb. RS 32- 554, each ward of the city shall have at least two City Council
members elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. No person shall be
eligible to the office of City Council member who is not at the time of the
election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a
registered voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
City Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the City Council shall serve for terms of four years or
until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any City Council member who ceases to possess
any of the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of
a felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, 32-604
§ 30.31 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the City Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
City Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the City Council shall elect one of
its own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the City Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the City Council; and
all acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as
binding upon the City Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.32 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the City Council may create by ordinance
or resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year, unless reappointed.
§ 30.33 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.17, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and City
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear
as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The City Council shall at once give
public notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the
city the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the City Council or
place the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular
meeting at which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or
special meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four
weeks after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The
City Council shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of
the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor
shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails
to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the City
Council shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the
vacancy is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the
nominee in case of a tie vote of the City Council. All City Council members
present shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the City
Council who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the City Council shall have
the same rights, including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and City Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a
city elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.34 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the City Council unless the absences are
excused by a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other City Council member.
   (C)   If City a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the City Council shall set a
date for a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the
hearing by personal service or first class mail to the member’s last known
address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the City Council member shall have the right to
present information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If
the City Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a
majority vote at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the
City Council.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.45 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce, and manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting
fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one
offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.46 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the City Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.47 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions shall be
introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.46 of this subchapter for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised
by the resolution or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage
of parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the City Council. A majority
vote shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any
resolution or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.48 ORDINANCES; STYLE AND TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and City Council of the City of Randolph, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.49 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, AND BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation
or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence
of a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote
when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the
number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the
Council, and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a
member of the Council.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for
City Council election districts or wards, as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-
614(3) or as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 30.50 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
    All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city or, if no
paper is published in the city, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the city; or
   (B)   In book, or pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.51 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.52 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.50 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the city which
has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the voters of the
city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.53 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   City Clerk
   
31.05   City Treasurer
   
31.06   City Attorney
   
31.07   Police Chief
   
31.08   Police officers
   
31.09   Fire Chief
   
31.10   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.11   Sewer Commissioner
   
31.12   Landfill Superintendent
   
31.13   Electric Commissioner
   
31.14   Overseer of Streets
   
31.15   Merger of Water, Sewer, Landfill, Street, and Electric Commissioner
   
31.16   City Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.17   Code Official and Building Inspector
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.030 and
33.031 of this code. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond
shall qualify by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.031 of this code.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may at its discretion by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member, with any
other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such
offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or
employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)
§ 31.04 CITY CLERK.
   (A)    The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of § 31.05
(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses tissued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 31.05 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The City Treasurer shall, at the
end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the
City Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the City Treasurer fails to render his
or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the City Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds
against the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom
the bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. The City Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in
that year and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education
through a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of
completion of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public
Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60
days after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or 17-606(2).
Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged
and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the City Treasurer shall be paid in the order
of their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register
shall show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the
amount of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which
the same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person
in whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The City Treasurer shall deliver
one of the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in
his or her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The City Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the
several columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts
forward, and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by
the City Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she
shall close the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward
the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the City
Treasurer shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose
name any warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the
public records in the City Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for
providing copies of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-
712.09.
   (E)   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid
by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City
Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the City Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of
the City Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to
him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall
draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and
other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other
duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The City
Council shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal
services performed by him or her for it on such terms as the City Council and
City Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay
for such legal assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
Cross-reference:
   Police Department provisions, see §§
32.60 et seq.
§ 31.08 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)    The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall
appoint such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All
police officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted, or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) of this
section. A police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the
City Council such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a
hearing, the City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a
procedure for such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay of any
police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of
the Chief of Police, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council
shall establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written
accusation, in accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty
of an officer by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by
this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of
orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the
public, or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a
physically present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public, or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(Neb. RS 81-1438) (Ord. 725, passed 2-22-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Police department provisions, see §§
32.60 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 31.09 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department provisions, see §§
32.35 et seq.
§ 31.10 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the city, the Mayor shall nominate and by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council shall appoint any competent person who shall be known as the
Water Commissioner of the city and whose term of office shall be for one fiscal
year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually at the
first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the Water Commissioner
shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office, or
removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section for
the appointment of the Water Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Council,
but not less than $5000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and City Council or executed by a
corporate surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the city.
      (5)   In a city where no Board of Public Works exists, and the city has
other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Mayor and City Council
shall by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner
with authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other
public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to
the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
city on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor
in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements,
repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the City
Council may by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation,
the Mayor and City Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them
seem necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be
eligible to the office of Water Commissioner during the term for which he or
she was elected.
      (6)   If the city owns public utilities other than the waterworks system
and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the Public Works
Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all provisions of
this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall apply to the
Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
   (C)   In the event the city shall have created a Board of Public Works as
provided in §
32.06 of this chapter, the Water Commissioner shall, subject to confirmation by
the Mayor and City Council, be employed thereafter by the Board at such
reasonable compensation as may be agreed upon at the time of such employment
and shall thereafter be under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works,
any of the provisions of Neb. RS 17-501 to 17-560 to the contrary
notwithstanding. Any Water Commissioner under the jurisdiction and control of
the Board of Public Works may be removed by the Board, after an opportunity to
be heard before the Mayor and City Council if he or she shall so request, for
malfeasance, misfeasance or neglect in office.
(Neb. RS 17-804)
§ 31.11 SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the sewer system
in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account of
its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of
the same with the City Clerk.
   (C)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at least
once every six months, of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months.
   (D)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer system
and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
   (E)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
§ 31.12 LANDFILL SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Landfill Superintendent shall have the immediate control and supervision
of the municipal landfill and of all dumping of garbage, refuse, waste, and
rubbish thereon subject to the general control and directives of the governing
body. He or she shall, at least every six months, make a detailed report to the
governing body on the condition of the landfill and shall direct their
attention to such improvements, additions, and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed, along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or
she shall issue dumping permits if the governing body should require them and
shall inspect and supervise all work done to improve or extend the landfill. He
or she shall have such other duties as the governing body may delegate to him
or her. He or she may be removed at any time by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-107) (Prior Code, § 1-215)
§ 31.13 ELECTRIC COMMISSIONER.
   The Electric Commissioner shall have the immediate control and supervision
of the electric system including the power plant, all poles, lines, and
substations connected therewith subject to the general control and directives
of the governing body. He or she shall, at the request of the governing body,
make a detailed report to the governing body on the condition of the municipal
electrical system. He or she shall have such other duties as the governing body
may delegate to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 1-217)
§ 31.14 OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
City Council, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the city, and shall perform such
other duties as the City Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council make a detailed
report to the City Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, alleys, and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to
such improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think
proper.
   (D)   The Overseer of Streets shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.15 MERGER OF WATER, SEWER, LANDFILL, STREET, AND ELECTRIC COMMISSIONER.
   The offices of the Water Commissioner, Sewer Commissioner, Landfill
Administrative Commissioner, Street Commissioner, and Electric Commissioner
shall be merged in the same person for the consolidation of official duties and
said person shall hold the title of Public Works Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 1-218)
§ 31.16 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board of Public Works may
utilize its own engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the
design and installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the
jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.17 CODE OFFICIAL AND BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Positions created. There is hereby created the positions of Code
Official and Building Inspector. The Code Official is charged with the
administration and enforcement of the International Property Maintenance Code.
The Building Inspector is charged with the duty of enforcing all city building
and housing regulations and ordinances of the city and those other duties set
forth in §§
150.35 through
150.41. The person to be initially appointed by this section as Code Official
and Building Inspector (collectively, “Officer”) shall be the City
Administrator and/or the Public Works Supervisor of the city.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The duties of the Officer shall be to enforce the city ordinances
and regulations relating to:
         (a)   The conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures;
         (b)   The standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and
         (c)   The demolition of existing structures in the city.
      (2)   The duties of the Officer are more specifically provided in §§
150.35 through
150.41 of this code.
   (C)   Appointment. The Officer hereby created shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with the consent of the City Council.
   (D)   Term. The term of office for the Officer hereby created shall be for
one year, unless sooner removed.
   (E)   Supervision. The Officer shall serve under the direct supervision of
the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 1-219) (Ord. 684, passed 7-5-2017; Ord. 735, passed 12-14-2022)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Board of Public Works
   
32.06   Cemetery Board
   
32.07   Park Board
   
32.08   Golf Course Board
   
32.09   Economic Development Advisory Board
   
32.10   Community Development Agency
   
32.11   Standing committees
Fire Department
   
32.35   Operation and funding
   
32.36   Fire Chief
   
32.37   Membership
   
32.38   Records
   
32.39   Fires
   
32.40   Distant fires
   
32.41   Inspections
   
32.42   Notice of violation
   
32.43   Power of arrest
   
32.44   Fire investigation
   
32.45   Ambulance service
   
32.46   Ambulance personnel insurance
Police Department
   
32.60   Duties
   
32.61   Reserve officer bond
   
32.62   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.63   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)    When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 to 51-219, and
except as otherwise provided by the City Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202,
the Library Board shall have five appointed members who shall be residents of
the 68771 zip code and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board members
shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council.
Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the
Library Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change
in the number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those
members shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of
vacancies by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill
the vacancy for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or
compensation for any services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both
the president and secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the secretary
to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file
the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Library Board shall meet at such times as the Board may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the president or a
majority of the members of the Library Board.
(Ord. 723, passed 2-2-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Library provisions, see
Ch. 94 of this code
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the powers of the city, the Mayor and City Council hereby
find and determine that it is necessary and desirable that a Planning
Commission for the city be created in accordance with Neb. RS 19-925 et seq.
and the initial members be appointed.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over which the city
exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular
member of the Planning Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is
determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of residents reside in
the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, and no
such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available
vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an
individual. For purposes of this section, a sufficient number of residents
shall mean 500 residents.
   (C)   The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that
approximately one-third of the regular members of the first Planning Commission
shall serve for terms of one year, one-third for terms of two years, and one-
third for terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office until
their successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before
the City Council, be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote
of the members elected to the City Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty,
or malfeasance in office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the
unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
   (D)   All regular members of the Planning Commission shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to
serve on the Board of Adjustment, as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of
the Planning Commission may be required, in the discretion of the Mayor and
City Council, to give bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
   (E)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall
hold no other municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three
years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed
and approved. The alternate member may be removed from office in the same
manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant
other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for
the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority
vote of the elected members of the City Council. The alternate member may
attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and participating member of the
Planning Commission at any time when less than the full number of regular
Planning Commission members is present and capable of voting.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall elect its chairperson and a secretary
from its members, and create and fill such other of its officers as it may
determine. The term of the chairperson and the secretary shall be one year, and
they shall be eligible for reelection. No member of the Planning Commission
shall serve in the capacity of both the chairperson and secretary of the
Commission. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file them with the City Clerk where
they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (G)   The Commission shall be funded by the City Council from time to time
out of the General Fund. The expenditures of the Planning Commission, exclusive
of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City
Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in
excess of such amounts.
   (H)   A number of Planner Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of
regular members appointed to the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of any business. The Planning Commission shall hold at
least one regular meeting in each calendar quarter, except the City Council may
require the Planning Commission to meet more frequently and the chairperson of
the Planning Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with
business pending before the Planning Commission. Special meetings may also be
held upon the call of any three members of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   The Planning Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public record. The
Planning Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development of
the municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the
Planning Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the city, and
shall carry out the other duties and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS
19-929.
   (J)   All actions by the Planning Commission shall be subject to the review
and supervision of the Mayor and City Council. The Planning Commission shall
make its recommendations to the City Council so that they are received by the
City Council within 45 days after the Planning Commission begins consideration
of a matter relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital
improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the annexation of
territory, or zoning. The Planning Commission shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Mayor and City Council
may, from time to time, designate.
(Ord. 680, passed 6-7-2017)
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B) below, the City
Council shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions
taken by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by
division (F) below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the zoning board of adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request or otherwise
only by the County Zoning Board of Adjustment in which the greatest area of the
city is located, and the jurisdiction of such County Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall include all portions of the city and its extraterritorial control,
regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
    (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as
more than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already
include such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the
Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board of Adjustment and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office except for
the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both chairperson and secretary of the Board. The secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment,
by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board
of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or
her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or
her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on
notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The
Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal,
give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest,
and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation or requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and divisions (C) and (F) above would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board of
Adjustment unless it finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board of Adjustment
finds that the condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended
use of the property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make
reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as
an amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board of
Adjustment may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members
of the board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board of Adjustment. Upon the filing of such petition a summons shall be issued
and be served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the
petition. Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance
of the summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board
of Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny
the substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of
the Board with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the
petition. The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for the
petition. At the expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall
proceed to hear and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment
thereon according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the
court that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it
may take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct
and report the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and
conclusions of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which
the determination of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the district court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the court may, on application, on notice to the Board of Adjustment
and on due cause shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such
judgment of the district court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the
general laws of the state regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: The Mayor,
who shall be chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has
appointed a Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board of
Health as secretary and quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them,
and may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board of Health shall have power to and shall make all needful
rules and regulations relating to matters of sanitation of the city, including
the removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys,
vacant grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
waterclosets, cesspools, stables, and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances, or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board of Health shall
also have control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of sick, and
matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council, and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Health shall meet at such times as the City Council may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
Cross-reference: 
   Health and safety regulations, see
Chapter 93
§ 32.05 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Whenever the city has or is about to establish or acquire any system
of waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system and the City Council has created a Board of
Public Works, the Board shall consist of not less than three, nor more than six
members, residents of the city, to be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council. The members may be removed by the Mayor and a
majority of the members elected to the City Council at any time. The term of
the first members of the Board of Public Works shall be one, two, three, or
four years in the manner designated by the Mayor, as the case may be, after
which the term of each member shall be four years; and the terms of not more
than two members shall expire at any one time.
(Neb. RS 17-801)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall have the active direction and
supervision of any or all of the utility systems owned or operated by the city
as conferred on it by the City Council. The City Council shall approve the
budget of each proprietary function as provided in the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act. The Board of Public Works shall have the power to operate any
utility referred to it and to exercise all powers conferred by law upon the
city for the operation and government of such utility to the same extent, in
the same manner, and under the same restrictions as the City Council could do
if no such Board of Public Works existed, except that the Board of Public Works
shall not make any expenditure or contract any indebtedness other than for
ordinary running expenses, exceeding the amount established by the City
Council, without first obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board of
Public Works shall report to the City Council at regular intervals as it may
require.
(Neb. RS 17-802)
   (C)   If so authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Council, the Board of
Public Works may cooperate and participate in a plan of insurance designed and
intended for the benefit of the employees of any public utility operated by the
city. For that purpose the Board of Public Works may make contributions to pay
premiums or dues under such plan, authorize deductions from salaries of
employees, and take such other steps as may be necessary to effectuate such
plan of insurance.
(Neb. RS 17-802.01)
   (D)   The members of the Board of Public Works shall organize as soon as
practicable after their appointment, by electing a chairperson and secretary,
who shall serve until the first meeting in June next following; and thereafter
the Board of Public Works shall elect a chairperson and secretary at the first
meeting in June each year. In the absence of the regular officers, temporary
officers to serve in their places may be chosen by the members present at any
meeting. They shall establish regular times for meeting and may adopt such
rules as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of their business. They
shall keep a record of their proceedings and if there is a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the city, shall publish therein the
minutes of each meeting within 30 days after it is held.
(Neb. RS 17-805)
   (E)   Each of the members of the Board of Public Works shall take an oath to
discharge faithfully the duties of the office before entering upon the
discharge thereof. Each of the members of the Board of Public Works before
entering upon the duties of the office shall be required to give bond to the
city with corporate surety. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000 and shall
be conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of member of the
Board of Public Works; and the surety on such bond shall be approved by the
Mayor and City Council and shall be filed with the City Treasurer, provided
that the premium on the bond shall be paid out of any public utility fund
designated by the Mayor and City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-806)
   (F)   No member of the Board of Public Works shall ever be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by them on
behalf of such city for more than $10,000 in one year.
(Neb. RS 17-807)
   (G)   If the Board of Public Works determines that the best interests of the
city and the patrons of the utility will be better or more economically served,
they may employ the duly elected City Clerk as ex officio bookkeeper and
collector for the utility or utilities, and he or she may be paid a reasonable
salary for the extra services required of him or her in such position in
addition to his or her salary as City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-808)
   (H)   Rates or charges for service may be fixed or changed by resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-810)
§ 32.06 CEMETERY BOARD.
   (A)   Generally. The governing body shall appoint the Cemetery Board, which
shall consist of five members who are residents of the 68771 zip code and who
shall serve without compensation for a term of three years. Two members shall
be appointed each year, with three members appointed on the third year, and
these members may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to give
a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. At the annual meeting each year, the
Cemetery Board shall organize by selecting from its membership, a chairperson
and secretary. The secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall
be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A two-thirds
majority of the Cemetery Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of doing business. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
chairperson or any three members of the Cemetery Board. The Cemetery Board
shall have the power and authority to limit and regulate the number of cemetery
lots that may be owned by the same person; to prescribe rules for enclosing,
adorning, and erecting monuments and tombstones on cemetery lots; and to
prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof; provided, no religious tests
shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial therein, and the
ornamentation of graves. The Cemetery Board shall pass rules and regulations
for the proper use of the cemetery. The Cemetery Board shall use all revenue
received from the sale of lots, gifts, or by devise for the care, management,
and administration of the cemetery. All actions of the Cemetery Board shall be
subject to the review and supervision of the governing body and it shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the governing body may designate.
(Neb. RS 12-402) (Prior Code, § 2-204)
   (B)   Mayor as member. One of the members of the Cemetery Board may be the
Mayor of the city and the Mayor may appoint himself or herself with the
approval of the City Council to said Cemetery Board. The Mayor member shall be
governed by all of the other rules and regulations in the municipal code
relative to the activities of the cemetery.
(Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403) (Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 723, passed 2-2-
2022; Ord. 746, passed 12-13-2023)
§ 32.07 PARK BOARD.
    The city owns and operates the municipal parks and other recreational areas
through the Board of Park Commissioners (hereinafter “Park Board"). The Park
Board shall be appointed by the governing body and shall consist of no less
than seven members, each of whom shall be residents of the 68771 zip code. Each
Park Board member shall serve a three-year term unless reappointed. All Park
Board members shall serve without compensation. The governing body, for the
purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the
municipal parks, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal
property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The necessary
revenue from the said tax shall be allocated to a specific fund within the
city, which fund shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain the custody
of the City Treasurer. The Park Board shall monitor the needs of the premises
of the municipal parks and shall submit budgetary requests to the governing
body for items necessary for the repair, maintenance, and upkeep of the park
premises. The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature which
involves an expenditure of funds, unless the contract has been approved by
resolution of the majority of the members of the governing body prior to the
contractual agreement.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 672, passed 10-7-2015; Ord. 723, passed 2-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
§ 32.08 GOLF COURSE BOARD.
   The Golf Course Board shall be appointed and the nominated members must
receive a majority vote of the governing body. The Golf Course Board shall
consist of six members. The members of the Golf Course Board shall serve a
three-year term of office. The Golf Course Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the governing body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Golf Course
Board’s first meeting in November of each year, the Golf Course Board shall
organize by selecting from their number a chairperson and secretary. It shall
be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Golf
Course Board members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairperson or any three
members of the Golf Course Board. The Golf Course Board shall have the
authority to hire a greens keeper and all other employees. It shall be the duty
of the Golf Course Board to have general charge of the municipal golf course
and to establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management,
operation, and use of the same. The Golf Course Board shall have supervisory
authority over all employees of the golf course, including the greens keeper
under the supervision of the governing body. The Golf Course Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the governing body may designate from time to time. No member of the Golf
Course Board shall serve in the capacity of both the chairperson and secretary
of the Board.
(Ord. 656, passed 1-4-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 51-202 
§ 32.09 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Economic Development Advisory Board shall be appointed and the nominated
members must receive a majority vote of the governing body. The Economic
Development Advisory Board shall consist of five members who shall reside in
the zip code of 68771. The members of the Economic Development Advisory Board
shall serve a three-year term of office, except that the term of two of the
members appointed to the first Board shall be for only one year, and the term
of two members of the first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his or her successor shall
be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term. The Economic Development
Advisory Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the governing body and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties. At the time of the Economic Development Advisory Board’s first meeting
in January of each year, the Economic Development Advisory Board shall organize
by selecting from their number a chairperson and secretary. It shall be the
duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the City Clerk where, they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the
Economic Development Advisory Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
chairperson or any three members of the Economic Development Advisory Board. It
shall be the duty of the Economic Development Advisory Board to have general
charge of the Municipal Economic Development Advisory Board and to establish
appropriate rules and regulations for the management, operation, and use of the
same. All actions of the Economic Development Advisory Board shall be subject
to the review and supervision of the governing body. The Economic Development
Advisory Board shall be responsible for making such reports for Economic
Development Advisory Board performing such additional duties as the governing
body may designate from time to time. No member of the governing body shall
serve as a member of the Economic Development Advisory Board while serving a
term of office as a member of the governing body. No member of the Economic
Development Advisory Board shall serve in the capacity of both the chairperson
and secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 711, passed 10-28-2020)
§ 32.10 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01, a
Community Development Agency for the city.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council are hereby designated to be the Community
Development Agency for the city.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be the chairperson of the Community Development
Agency; the vice chairperson of the City Council shall be the vice chairperson;
and the City Clerk shall be the secretary of the Community Development Agency.
   (D)   The Community Development Agency shall have the power and authority to
exercise those powers and authority granted to a community redevelopment
authority under Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2144. The Community Development Agency
shall also have the power and authority to do all community development
activities, and to do all things necessary to cooperate with the federal
government in all matters relating to community development program activities
as a grantee, or as an agent or otherwise, under the provisions of the Federal
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended through the Housing
and Community Development amendments of 1981, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq.
The Community Development Agency may levy taxes for the exercise of such
jurisdiction and authority, and may issue general obligation bonds, general
obligation notes, revenue bonds, and revenue notes, including those general
obligation and revenue refunding bonds and notes for the purposes set forth in
such sections and under the powers granted to any community redevelopment
authority described therein.
(Ord. 670, passed 6-3-2015)
§ 32.11 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the City Council may, by ordinance or
resolution, create. The membership of such standing committees may be changed
at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each
standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term
of office of one year, unless reappointed.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets, and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder, and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a voluntary fire department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the fire department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the City Treasurer
shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of
the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction, and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.36 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or
other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council at
the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the
City Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.37 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons, for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company to the value of
$500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the Nebraska Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and upon confirmation
shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire Department after
confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council and thereafter shall not be considered employees of the city.
Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the course and scope of their employment when performing
activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if directed to
do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For purposes of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee, or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the city code or the laws of the
state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 32.38 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the City Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 32.39 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city, and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.40 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
§ 32.41 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief where a Fire department is established or the Mayor
where no Fire Department exists, at all reasonable hours, may enter into all
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes
of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 to 81-531, the Nebraska
Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the Petroleum Products and Hazardous
Substances Storage and Handling Act, and any other statutory duties imposed
upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year, all buildings, premises, and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale, and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and adequacy of exits, in
case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization
of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
§ 32.42 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall
be the duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days
nor more than ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with
the City Clerk. The City Council shall then affirm, modify, or rescind the
order as safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that
reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the
probable hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A
copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the
owner, occupant, or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.43 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the fire
fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or
disorderly manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual
powers and authority of city police officers to command all persons to assist
them in the performance of their duties.
§ 32.44 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported,
and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as to
whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after of the occurrence of the fire, and
the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the city shall forthwith notify
the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire
furnish him or her written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
§ 32.45 AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to house and maintain the city
ambulance. All ambulance attendants shall be appointed by the governing body
and shall form their own Ambulance Board within the Fire Department electing
officers, adopting rules and regulations for ambulance operations, and setting
and collecting fees for services rendered. The operation of the municipal
ambulance may be carried out jointly with the Rural Fire Protection District.
All of the activities of the Ambulance Board shall be subject to the review of
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-312)
§ 32.46 AMBULANCE PERSONNEL INSURANCE.
   All ambulance personnel shall be considered to be employees of the
municipality for the purpose of providing them with worker’s compensation and
other benefits. Each member shall be entitled to a term life insurance policy
in the amount of at least $10,000 for death from any cause to age 65 and such
policy shall at the option of the individual ambulance personnel be convertible
to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65.
(Neb. RS 35-108) (Prior Code, § 3-313)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.60 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Police Department. The Chief shall devote his or her
whole time to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Police Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the
orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Police Department to protect
the rights of persons and property. The Police Department shall take notice of
all nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the city. The Police Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special police
officers shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall
see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against
any person or persons for violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every
city police officer making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the
presence of some other person, whenever possible, and to carefully keep and
produce to the proper judicial official upon the trial everything found upon
the person of such prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners
shall be restored to them upon their release. The Police Chief and other police
officers shall file such reports as may be required by the city ordinances and
the laws of the state. No law enforcement official shall have any interest in
any establishment having a liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect, or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.61 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council has
been filed. These bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 11,
Art. 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444)
§ 32.62 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail or other place of confinement to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post- arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
§ 32.63 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal or discipline of any police officer, including the Chief
of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for making application for
an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which such application
shall be made, and provisions on the manner in which the appeals hearing shall
be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the City Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the City Council to
act within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected City Council
members to vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall
be construed as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The
decision of the City Council shall be based upon its determination that, under
the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or
disciplinary action was necessary for the proper management and the effective
operation of the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the
statutes of the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the City
Council, the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the
rules and regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (2)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (3)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall
set the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after the
filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City Council shall give the
police officer written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to
the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   To be represented by counsel.
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.001   Definitions
   
33.002   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.003   Notice to news media
   
33.004   City Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.005   Emergency meetings
   
33.006   Attendance other than in person
   
33.007   Closed sessions
   
33.008   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.009   Public participation
   
33.010   City Council; order of business
   
33.011   Votes
   
33.012   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.013   Minutes
   
33.014   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.030   Bonds; requirements
   
33.031   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.045   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.046   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
33.060   Publication of notices
Corporate Seal
   
33.075   Official corporate seal
Code of Conduct
   
33.090   Code of conduct
MEETINGS
§ 33.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of
Nebraska, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.002 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.003 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.004 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at such times as
the City Council may provide by ordinance. A majority of all the members
elected to the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
any business, but a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the
attendance of absent members. When the City Council consists of four members as
established by ordinance or home rule charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a
member of the City Council for purposes of establishing a quorum when the
Mayor’s presence is necessary to establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is
required by law, an affirmative vote of at least one-half of the elected
members shall be required for the transaction of any business.
(Neb. RS 17-105)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three City Council members shall have power to
call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the City Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as
the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and City Council members of the special meeting, stating the
time and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the City Council, on the request of any
two members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be
sent for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the City Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present,
or if absent, by the President of the City Council.
§ 33.005 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.003 of this subchapter shall be complied with in conducting emergency
meetings. Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.006 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.007 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.008 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.009 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)    Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1410, may be videotaped, televised, photographed,
broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder,
a camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic
reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) of this section for any
public body to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the
conduct of persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising,
photographing, broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held
by virtual conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak
at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 33.010 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 33.011 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.012 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council.
When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point
is decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the City Council. Every member of the City Council who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the City Council present. No motion shall be
put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor
before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on
the minutes, the name of the member of the City Council making the motion or
resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall
be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any
resolution, motion, or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration
by the sponsor with the consent of the member of the City Council seconding the
resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the City Council for meetings may be suspended by a
two-thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are
not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
City Council shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.013 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the city may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.014 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the City Council shall present their
reports. Upon the outgoing City Council having completed its business, the
outgoing members of the City Council shall surrender their offices to the
incoming members, and the outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to
their successors in office all property, records, papers, and moneys belonging
to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the City Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior City Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all
City Council members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The
City Council shall examine the credentials of its members and any other
elective officers of the city to see that each has been duly and properly
elected and to see that such oaths and bonds as are required have been given.
The City Clerk’s report shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting
preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all City Council members and officers are duly
qualified and after the City Clerk has called the roll, the City Council shall
elect a President of the City Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her
candidates for appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired
and call for a vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed
with the regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.030 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)      No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the City Council
may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a
new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the City Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the City Council to appoint
a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.031 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God”.
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.045 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   No official shall receive any pay or compensation from the city other than
his or her salary. The foregoing notwithstanding, any official who shall be a
member of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be entitled to any benefits which
the city shall provide to members of said Department. The governing body shall
not pay or appropriate any money or other valuable thing to pay a person who is
not an officer for the performance of any act, service, or duty which shall
come within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-902) (Ord. 663, passed 12-18-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-611, 18-305 through 18-312  
§ 33.046 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual's household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual's spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer's parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer's governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five
years from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) of this section, the
governing body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) of this
section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may
have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 33.060 NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the city is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, then the city shall publish
such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
in the county in which the city is located. If there is no legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in such county, then the city shall publish such
notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three public places in the city for the same period of time the city is
required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper.
CORPORATE SEAL
§ 33.075 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
City Clerk and shall bear the following inscription, “Seal, City of Randolph,
Nebraska”. The City Clerk shall affix an impression of the said official seal
to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all other official papers
issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
CODE OF CONDUCT
§ 33.090 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   The city expects its employees, Mayor, members of the City Council, and all
members of a city board or committee, to:
   (A)   Maintain the highest standards of cooperation, integrity,
impartiality, good judgment, diplomacy, courtesy, fairness, and equality in
serving the city;
   (B)   Refrain from making representations which might obligate or put the
city in jeopardy;
   (C)   Adhere to the highest standards of personal and professional ethics;
   (D)   Treat employees, Mayor, members of the City Council, all members of a
city board or committee, and members of the public with respect and
professionalism;
   (E)   Carry out all duties to the best of their abilities; and
   (F)   Conduct themselves in such a manner as to bring credit to the city.
(Ord. 712, passed 10-7-2020)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Recall procedure
   
34.11   Exit polls; poll watchers
   
34.12   Wards
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under this section
shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even- numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)    Any candidate may place his or her name on the general election
ballot by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State
as provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of an elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and July 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No incumbent
who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or her term
shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All other
candidates shall file for office between January 5 and August 1 prior to the
date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)    Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
34.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official’s usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation at least
24 days prior to the election, otherwise the recall election shall be held as
scheduled.
      (4)   If the City Council fails or refuses to order a recall election
within the time required, the election may be ordered by the district court
having jurisdiction over a county in which the elected official serves. If a
filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of State shall
conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
 § 34.11 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.12 WARDS.
   All elected officials of the city shall be nominated and elected on an at-
large basis. The city shall have one election ward.
(Prior Code, § 1-712) (Ord. 648, passed 5-4-2011)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
   
35.15   Returned checks
   
35.16   Capitalization policy
   
35.17   Amending schedule of fees
Annual Budget
   
35.30   Fiscal year
   
35.31   Budget procedures
   
35.32   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.33   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.34   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.35   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.36   Appropriation bill
   
35.37   General Fund
   
35.38   Transfer of funds
   
35.39   Budget revision
   
35.40   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.55   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.56   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.57   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.58   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.59   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.60   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.61   Motor vehicle fee
   
35.62   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts to be
made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as expeditiously as
possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover all financial
transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal year. The audit
shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of the City
Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made by the
accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the fiscal
year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council. If the city owns or operates any type
of public utility or other enterprise which substantially generates its own
revenue, that phase of the affairs of the city shall be audited separately from
other functions of the city and the result shall appear separately in the
annual audit report made by the accountant to the city and such audit shall be
on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and materials which conform to
generally accepted accounting principles. For the utilities operated through
the Board of Public Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely
separate audit, on an accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a
different accountant than the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk, not later
than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   The governing body shall, before entering into any contract for labor,
materials, or any public improvement which exceeds $20,000 in cash as estimated
by the Municipal Engineer, advertise for bonds one week for at least seven days
prior to bid closing in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the city or
post a printed or written copy thereof in each of three public places in the
city; provided, that in the case of a public emergency which is a serious
danger to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance when adopted by a three-fourths
vote of the governing body. This provision shall not apply to contacts with
public power districts.
(Prior Code, § 1-813) (Ord. 619, passed 1-4-2006)
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05 of this subchapter, and funds for the class or object out of which such
claim is payable have been included in the adopted budget statement or
transferred according to law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited, unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
City libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such
city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the City Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the
manner provided in §
35.11 of this subchapter. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds
are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported
to the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record
by the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds,
when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of
one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates, or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money
borrowed, and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there
be any surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the
payment of public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into
the General Fund as the City Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any,
may, if the City Council, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations
of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council, where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board,
may be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law
upon the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the purpose of
collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.    
   (E)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted and
the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer and
the Director of Administrative Services with the advice of a committee convened
by the State Treasurer and the director. The committee shall consist of the
State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the director, and representatives from
counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate. The
committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such services.
The State Treasurer and the director shall contract with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the director shall consider, for purposes of
this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction fee imposed
by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party merchant
bank as an administrative expense. If the City Council chooses not to
participate in the state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or charge
card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of the
surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and shall
be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card,
charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be
authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire system.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
§ 35.15 RETURNED CHECKS.
   The city shall impose a charge of $10 to be assessed against any entity or
individual issuing a check payable to the city, through any department or
representative, that is returned by the drawee bank for the reason that the
account does not exist or the account has insufficient funds to satisfy the
amount of the checks.
(Ord. 593, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.16 CAPITALIZATION POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a uniform capitalization policy for fixed assets
that complies with generally accepted accounting principles.
   (B)   Scope. This policy applies to all departments of the city now in
existence or established in future.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   (a)   The city will capitalize all fixed assets with a purchase
price greater than $5,000 and a normal useful life of more than one year.
         (b)   Depreciation will be provided over the estimated useful life of
each item using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives are as
follows:
            1.   Buildings: 20 to 50 years;
            2.   Systems equipment: 20 to 50 years; and
            3.   Vehicles, tools, and equipment: five to ten years.
      (2)   Fixed asset.
         (a)   A fixed asset is any tangible asset purchased for use in the
day-to-day operation of the city from which an economic benefit will be derived
over a period greater than one year and has a value of $5,000 or more. Fixed
assets include items of property and equipment such as buildings, office
furniture, fixtures, and computers.
         (b)   Bulk purchases of similar items that have an aggregate value of
$10,000 or more are also captured as a fixed asset, regardless of individual
price of item. Items that are routinely purchased as a set and have a total
value of $5,000 or more will be capitalized and depreciated.
         (c)   Fixed assets with a value of less than $5,000 are expensed in
the period acquired.
      (3)   Building improvements and renovations.
         (a)   Major improvement projects that will extend the useful life of
the asset beyond one year, increase the efficiency, or add new capabilities
will be capitalized. All costs including parts and labor will be included in
the total cost of the project.
         (b)   Parts and labor utilized to perform minor repairs on an existing
asset of the city are routine maintenance and expensed in the period incurred.
      (4)   Land. LAND is defined as the actual land cost which does not
depreciate over time. The acquired value is recorded for the cost of the land.
      (5)   Land improvements. Land improvements are modifications to outside
areas such as sidewalks, parking lots, fences, and lighting.
      (6)   Infrastructure. Public domain general fixed assets consisting of
certain improvements, other than buildings, including roads, bridges, curbs and
gutters, streets and sidewalks, drainage systems, and lighting systems are
immovable and of value only to the city.
      (7)   Disposal of fixed asset. The gain or loss on the sale or disposal
of fixed assets is recorded by removing the cost and accumulated depreciation
from fixed assets and applying the sales proceeds.
   (D)   Valuation of assets.
      (1)   Purchased assets. The value of the asset is determined by including
the purchase price of the item, transportation costs, installation costs, and
any other direct expenses incurred by the city in obtaining the asset.
Subsequent items purchased, which fall under the $5,000 threshold, are expensed
immediately and not capitalized.
      (2)   Donated assets. The value recorded by the city for a donated asset
is market value on the date the gift was acquired. To determine the market
value of the asset, the city may use the appraisal price, selling price to
municipalities of an equivalent item, and/or information from the state’s
Department of Administrative Services.
      (3)   Leased assets. The lessee records a capital lease as an asset and a
corresponding liability. The initial recording value of the leased asset is
fair value, excluding any costs such as interest.
      (4)   New construction and capital projects. When the city constructs a
depreciable asset for its own use, all direct costs are included in the total
cost of the asset. This includes, but is not limited to, items such as
architectural, engineering, legal, consulting, and project managements from
outside sources.
(Res. 2021-06, passed 4-7-2021)
§ 35.17 AMENDING SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The City Administrator is authorized to amend and alter the general
schedule of fees, excluding rates or charges for city utility services, from
time to time.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall report all changes to the schedule of
fees at the regular meeting following such change.
(Res. 2021-09, passed 5-5-2021)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.30 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.31 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.32 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.33 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.34 of this subchapter. A proposed budget statement shall contain the
following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.34 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the four calendar days
shall include the day of publication but not the day of hearing. When the total
operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or
$20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted at the
City Council’s principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing body
shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement available to
the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions of the
proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison with the
prior year’s budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed
budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the hearing
and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the City Council and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the City Council of such errors. The City Council
shall correct any such error as provided in §
35.39 of this subchapter. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in
the budget adopted under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors
or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified the City Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.35 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)    After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this division,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
35.33.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 35.36 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which the City
Council may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to
defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.37 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.38 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the City Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.39 of this subchapter or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.39 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction. For purposes of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.34 of this subchapter, the City Council may, or within 30 days after
notification of an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the City Council
shall correct an adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or
accounting error which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than
1% or increase the amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall
be required for such a correction. After correction, the City Council shall
file a copy of the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or
counties in which the City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures
authorized by the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.40 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city's General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city's General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to
the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City
Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the Council's
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Council's jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident
within the Council's jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act, the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function.
Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the general fund
of the city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement
created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.55 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in any
one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.56 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.57 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.58 of this subchapter, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy
of $1.05 on each $100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in
the city. Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.58 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. For off-street parking districts established under the Offstreet
Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city
proportionately, by dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable
property within the district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable
property within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The City
Council shall review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the
political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The City Council may
approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request
that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated
by the city may be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.59 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.60 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)    If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year's rate of levy, the city's property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city's rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS
77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set the
amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) of this section. If the City Council seeks to set its property tax
request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior year,
it may do so after holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this
section and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division
(E) of this section. If any county, city, school district, or community college
seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of
Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (E) of this
section.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year's rate of levy, the city's property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the City Council's rate of levy for the current year shall
be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If the
City Council seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds
its property tax request in the prior year, it may do so after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) of this section and by passing a
resolution or ordinance that complies with division (E) of this section. If any
county, city, school district, or community college seeks to increase its
property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such
political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (E) of this section.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. If the city's total operating budget, not including reserves,
does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the notice may
be posted at the City Council's principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year's
tax request if applied to the current year's valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a city's property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city's property tax request
in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by          percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Randolph proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $        per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Randolph will exceed last
year's by         percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 35.61 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the city shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any city that collects the annual motor vehicle fee authorized
under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS 60-3,104 and,
as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle Registration
Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and Registration System;
and
         (b)   Any city that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County Treasurer
to the Road Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 35.62 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision's principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 17 and
prior to September 29 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (4)   At the joint public hearing, the representative of each political
subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political subdivision's
intent to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage and the effect of such request on the political subdivision's
budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by         percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The City of Randolph proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $        per $100 of assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Randolph will exceed
last year's by         percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the City of Randolph at 402-337-0567
or cityhall@randolphne.com.
      (5)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (6)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county's website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (7)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall send the information prescribed in division (C)(8) below to the
County Clerk by September 5. The County Clerk shall transmit the information to
the County Assessor no later than September 10. The County Clerk shall notify
each participating political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the
joint public hearing. The County Assessor shall mail the postcards required in
this division. Such postcards shall be mailed at least seven calendar days
before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating and mailing the
postcards, including staff time, materials, and postage, shall be divided among
the political subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing.
      (8)   The postcard sent under this division and the notice posted on the
county's website, if required under division (C)(6)(b) above, and published in
the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the joint public
hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political subdivision that
will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the amount of each
participating political subdivision's property tax request. The postcard shall
also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(8)(a) above;
         (c)   The following statement: "The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase as a result of property taxes in [insert
current tax year]. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your property
and the proposed tax increase on your property as a result of this revenue
increase. These estimates are calculated on the basis of the proposed [insert
current tax year] data. The actual tax on your property and tax increase on
your property may vary from these estimates;"
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property's assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property's assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: "To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice."
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above, the
governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision's property tax
request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by         percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Randolph proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $        per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Randolph will exceed last
year's by         percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include: (a) the names of the representatives of the political
subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing; and (b) the name and
address of each individual who spoke at the joint public hearing, unless the
address requirement is waived to protect the security of the individual, and
the name of any organization represented by each such individual. Such report
shall be delivered to the political subdivisions participating in the joint
public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICY
Section
   
36.01   Adopted by reference
§ 36.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s personnel policy is hereby adopted by reference and shall
constitute the official rules by which all relations between the city, its
hourly paid employees and, to the extent stated therein, police officers, shall
be governed. A full copy of the personnel policy and all amendments can be
found in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 611, passed 10-2-2001)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   ELECTRIC
      
54.   GARBAGE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Lien for delinquent utilities
   
50.02   Gas rates
   
50.03   Bills for electric, water, and sewer use
   
50.04   Utility franchise fee
§ 50.01 LIEN FOR DELINQUENT UTILITIES.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a utility customer of the city shall,
for any reason, remain indebted to the city for utilities service furnished,
such amount due, together with any rents, charges, and fees in arrears, shall
be considered a delinquent utility charge which is hereby declared to be a lien
upon the real estate for which the same was furnished. The City Clerk shall
notify in writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of the real
estate or their agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more
delinquent in the payment of the utilities charge. It shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to report to the Mayor and City Council a list of all unpaid
accounts due for utilities service together with a description of the address
or real estate served. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the
Mayor and City Council, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County
Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 695, passed 3-6-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-925.01, 18-503
§ 50.02 GAS RATES.
   The rates charged for natural gas transportation to customers in the city,
unless otherwise approved by the Mayor and City Council, shall not exceed the
following, effective on or after the date the utility implements the unbundling
of residential sales service.
Customer charge per month     
   Commercial service     $6 per meter*
   Residential service    $5 per meter*
Delayed payment charge       5% on the first $20 of bill, plus 2% on excess
Usage charge - commercial     
   First 10 therms per mon$0.368825 per therm
   Next 40 therms per mont$0.343825 per therm
   Next 450 therms per mon$0.076528 per therm
   Over 500 therms per mon$0.051528 per therm
Usage charge - residential    
   First 10 therms per mon$0.202991 per therm
   Next 40 therms per mont$0.177991 per therm
   Next 450 therms per mon$0.076528 per therm
   Over 500 therms per mon$0.051528 per therm
*   Minimum monthly charge shall equal the customer charge
Bills will be rendered at monthly intervals
 
(Ord. 597, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 50.03 BILLS FOR ELECTRIC, WATER, AND SEWER USE.
    All bills for electric service, water, and sewer use shall be due and
payable at the office of the City Clerk on the first day of the month in which
issued, and if not paid by the tenth day of the month in which issued, a
penalty equal to 10% of the amount of the bill will be added thereto, and if
not paid by the twentieth of the money in which issued, service will be
disconnected and a charge of $25 will be made for reconnection.
(Ord. 700, passed 1-8-2020; Ord. 713, passed 3-3-2021; Ord. 733, passed 9-7-
2022)
Cross-reference:
   Billing for electric service, see also §
53.13
§ 50.04 UTILITY FRANCHISE FEE.
   There is hereby assessed a franchise fee for the distribution of electricity
for sale in an amount equal to 15% of the gross receipts derived from the
business of distributing and selling electricity. Payments shall be made in
monthly payments. Each monthly payment shall be due 15 days immediately
following the termination of each month. The franchise fee paid under the
provisions of this section shall be credited to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 714, passed 4-7-2021)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Operating and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Consumer application
   
51.04   Water contract
   
51.05   Installation procedure
   
51.06   Installation expense
   
51.07   Repairs
   
51.08   Fees and collections
   
51.09   Minimum rates
   
51.10   Single premises
   
51.11   Restricted use
   
51.12   Fire hydrants
   
51.13   Pollution
   
51.14   Mandatory hook-up
   
51.15   Water service contracts
   
51.16   Inspection
   
51.17   Police reports
   
51.18   Destruction of property
   
51.19   Cross-connections
   
51.20   Complaints
   
51.21   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance; testing
   
51.22   Booster pumps
   
51.23   Yard hydrants
   
51.24   Fire suppression systems
   
51.25   Consumers
   
51.26   Violations
   
51.27   Liability
Water Wells
   
51.40   Drilling and operation of wells and other underground facilities or
contaminating facilities without permit unlawful
   
51.41   Procedure to obtain permit
   
51.42   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated distance
from municipal water sources prohibited
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the Water Department through the Water
Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of the Water Department, may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Water Fund and shall remain the custody of the City Treasurer. The Water
Commissioner shall have the direct management and control of the Water
Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. The
Water Commissioner shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body shall set the
rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of
the rates in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-534) (Prior Code, § 3-101)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and disbursing the same in the city
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make written
application therefor to the City Clerk who shall then forward the application
to the Water Commissioner. Water may not be supplied to any house or private
service pipe except upon the written order of the Water Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   The city through its Water Department shall furnish water to persons within
its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The city may furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and
may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the city as and when, according to law, the governing body
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water rates hereinafter named
in this subchapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter
made for water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between
every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making
of application on the part of any applicant or the use of consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the city to
which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any
of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Water Commissioner or his or her
agent may cut off or disconnect the water service from the building or premises
or place of such violation. No further connection for water service to said
building, premises, or place shall again be made save or except by order of
said Commissioner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon approval of the consumer’s application, the city shall tap the
municipal water main. The consumer shall then be responsible for installation
of the service and supply pipe from the municipal main to the premises to be
served, including corporation cock, stop cock, and stop box. The city shall
furnish the water meters which shall then be installed by the city and paid for
by the property owner. An accessible and satisfactory location for the
installation of the water meter shall be provided by the property owner. If the
only possible location for the installation of the water meter is outside the
facility being served by water, then the property owner shall provide a pit at
least 40 inches in diameter at a depth preventing freezing, constructed of
approved reinforced material and covered with an approved cover allowing for
protection and maintenance, and the water meter shall be installed in said pit.
   (B)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Water Commissioner shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the
consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Water Commissioner. The first inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service is restored. It
is the customer’s responsibility to notify the Water Commissioner at the time
the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done under the
supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and
specifications, prescribed for such installation by the Water Commissioner;
provided, that the said rules, regulations, and specifications have been
reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-537)
      (1)   Building regulations prohibition of lead pipes, solder, and flux:
any pipe, solders, or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or non-residential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
         (a)   Solders and flux not more than 2% lead; and
         (b)   Pipe and pipe fittings not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 3-105) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The consumer, upon approval of his or her application for water service,
shall pay to the city a tap fee for new service in the amount of the assessment
against his or her property as recorded by the City Clerk. The consumer shall
then be responsible for all expenses incurred in installing the water service
from the main to the premises served.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (Prior Code, § 3-106)
§ 51.07 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe and supply pipe from the main to the premises
served shall be made by and at the expense of the customer. All other repairs
to the property of the Water Department, including the meter, shall be made by
the city. All water meters shall be kept in repair by the city at the expense
of the property owner. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and
reset by the city at the expense of the property owner. All meters shall be
tested at the customer’s request with a $10 deposit; provided, that if the test
shows the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the $10 deposit shall be
returned to the consumer. The city reserves the right to test any water service
meter at any time and if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the city
shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s water
service fixtures at customer’s expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to
register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during the time the
meter is out of repair on the basis of the quarterly consumption during the
same quarter of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for
comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (Prior Code, § 3-107)
§ 51.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such
fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all money received by the
city on the account of the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully account
for and pay to the City Treasurer all revenue collected by him or her, taking
his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one in the Water Department’s
records and keeping the other in his or her own official records.
(Neb. RS 17-538) (Prior Code, § 3-108)
§ 51.09 MINIMUM RATES.
   (A)   All water consumers shall be liable for the following minimum rates
provided by ordinance, unless and until the consumer shall, by written order,
direct the Water Commissioner to shut off the water at the stop box, in which
case he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water
is turned on again.
   (B)    Residential and commercial: $20 per month service charge plus $1.20
per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof of usage up to 10,000 gallons or plus $2
per 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof over 10,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 700, passed 1-8-2020; Ord. 733, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 51.10 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises nor, after water is supplied into a building, shall
any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or attachment
without the written permission of the Water Commissioner. It shall further be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or devise to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to
cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Water Commissioner may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The city shall not be
liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the city has no
control.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-113)
§ 51.12 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants, for the purpose of extinguishing fires, are hereby declared to
be public hydrants and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Fire Department, under the order of the Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire
Chief or members of the Water Department, to open or attempt to open any of the
hydrants and draw water from the same or in any manner to interfere with the
hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the. supply of the Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536) (Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hook-up with the municipal water system.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-116)
§ 51.15 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall, at once, inform the Water Commissioner who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail to
give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Water Commissioner is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 51.16 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Water Commissioner or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building
to or in which water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, meters, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there
is any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
   (B)   If any property owner refuses access to a water meter either by the
appointed agent of the city or by an employee of the city for the purpose of
reading said water meter, then said property owner shall be charged a monthly
rate for water and sewer use ten times the current minimum monthly charge for
each month thereafter until said property owner allows access to the water
meter on his or her property. If said property owner refuses said access for a
period of more than three months, water service shall be terminated.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-118)
§ 51.17 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the municipal police to report to the Water
Commissioner all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the municipal code relating to the Water Department. They shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 51.18 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a stop
box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of
the above-mentioned property without the written permission of the Water
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-120) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to allow any cross-connections between the city water
system and any private hook-up which might allow drainbacks into the city water
system, and safeguards acceptable to the Water Commissioner shall be required
in such situations.
(Prior Code, § 3-121) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Water Commissioner or City Clerk may appear before the
governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for
the use of water or for the resumption of water service after the same shall
have been shut off shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the City
Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “paid under
protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-122)
§ 51.21 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE; TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Water Department may be required by the Public Works
Supervisor to have a properly located backflow prevention device privately
installed and maintained at his or her expense appropriate to the potential
hazards set forth in Nebraska Admin. Code Title 179, Department of Health, and
approved by the Public Works Supervisor.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Public Works Supervisor to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the city.
The application shall contain, at a minimum, the name and address of the
application, the type of potential hazard required, protection, and the type of
backflow device to be installed, including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Public Works Supervisor shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether such installation will
protect the city water distribution system from potential backflow and
backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber licensed by the city, if applicable.
   (E)   Such customer shall also certify to the city at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a Nebraska
Department of Health Grade VI Certified Water Operator, if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the City Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Public Works Supervisor may be appealed to the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
§ 51.22 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order.
(Prior Code, § 3-124) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 YARD HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The installation of yard hydrants where water is available or
accessible for drinking or culinary purposes and which have drip openings below
ground surface is prohibited unless such hydrants are equipped with an approved
device to prevent entrance of groundwater into chambers connected with the
water supply.
   (B)   Yard hydrants or hose bibs which would be used by the consumer to
provide water to mix pesticides, fertilizer, or other chemicals for direct use
of aerial application to surface areas shall be equipped with an anti-siphon
vacuum breaker.
   (C)   All underground lawn and garden sprinkler systems shall be equipped
with an approved backflow prevention device.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All proposed installations of fire suppression systems shall be
reviewed by the manager to determine the appropriate type of backflow
prevention device(s) required.
   (B)   All proposed fire suppression systems requiring an antifreeze solution
shall use a pharmaceutical grade antifreeze. The consumer shall provide to the
manager a certification identifying the type of pharmaceutical grade antifreeze
which shall be used. A double check valve backflow prevention device shall be
installed in an approved manner.
   (C)   A double check valve of an approved type shall be installed on all
proposed fire suppression systems not utilizing antifreeze, but this may be
done only when there are no other cross- connections.
All existing fire suppression systems shall meet the requirements of the above,
whichever applies. An inspection by a certified fire suppression specialist
shall be done to determine whether pharmaceutical grade antifreezes have been
utilized. This shall be done at the expense of the consumer. If it cannot be
certified that only pharmaceutical grade antifreezes have been used, then a
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed as
approved by the manager. This also shall be done at the expense of the
consumer.
   (D)   In the event cross-connections, such as those found in using auxiliary
water supply systems or in providing other water additives, such as foaming
agents, are necessary for the proper operation of the fire suppression system,
then a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device shall be installed in
an approved manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
§ 51.25 CONSUMERS.
   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service
line to a customer’s water supply system serving the following types of
facilities:
Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, and health clubs
Car washes and automobile servicing facilities
Chemical and petroleum processing or storage of plants
Chemical plants
Food or beverage processing plants
Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent homes, and
medical buildings
Laundries and dry cleaners
Lawn irrigation systems and swimming pools
Metal degreasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, and dye and metal
processing or productions
Multi-storied buildings greater than three stories in height
Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute potential cross-
connection
Packing houses
Power plants
Premises having radioactive materials, such as laboratories, industries, and
hospitals
Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or cooling
systems
Rendering plants
Schools, universities, and colleges
Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or stormwater pumping
stations
Testing laboratories, film laboratories, and film development facilities
Veterinary establishments, kennels, feed yards, stables, rodeo grounds,
stockyards, and pet grooming salons
 
(Prior Code, § 3-127)
§ 51.26 VIOLATIONS.
   The manager shall deny or discontinue, after notice to the consumer thereof,
the water service to any premises wherein:
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the manager;
   (B)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
by-passed;
   (C)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
   (D)   A low pressure cut-off required by §
51.22 of this chapter is not installed and maintained in working order or the
manager is denied entry to determine compliance with these regulations;
   (E)   The manager shall immediately deny or discontinue, without notice to
the consumer thereof, the water service to any premises wherein a severe cross-
connection exists which constitutes an immediate threat to the safety of the
public water system. The manager shall notify the consumer within 24 hours of
said denial or discontinuation of service; and
   (F)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the manager.
(Prior Code, § 3-128)
§ 51.27 LIABILITY.
   The manager shall be relieved from personal liability. The city shall hold
harmless the manager, when acting in good faith and without malice, from all
personal liability for any damage that may occur to any person or property as a
result of any act required or authorized by this title or by reason of any act
or omission of the manager in the discharge of his or her duties hereunder. Any
suit brought carrying out the provisions of the title shall be defended by the
city or the city’s insurance carrier, if any, through final determination of
such proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)
WATER WELLS
§ 51.40 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES OR
CONTAMINATING FACILITIES WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill and/or operate any
of the following facilities within the corporate limits of the city without
first having obtained the proper permit from the governing body of the city:
   (A)   Potable water well;
   (B)   Any other well;
   (C)   Sewage lagoon;
   (D)   Absorption or disposal field for water;
   (E)   Cesspool;
   (F)   Dumping grounds;
   (G)   Feedlot;
   (H)   Livestock pasture or corral;
   (I)   Chemical product storage facility;
   (J)   Petroleum product storage facility;
   (K)   Pit toilet;
   (L)   Sanitary landfill;
   (M)   Septic tank;
   (N)   Sewage treatment plant; and
   (O)   Sewage wet well.
(Ord. 582, passed 5-7-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §
51.40 of this subchapter, the owner of property on which the proposed facility
is to be located, must make application on the proper form provided by the
governing body of the city. Such application must be presented to the City
Council at any regular or special meeting. After reviewing the application of
any person desiring to drill or operate any of the above described facilities,
then the City Council must approve or deny said permit.
(Ord. 582, passed 5-7-1996)
§ 51.42 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE
FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES PROHIBITED.
   Under no circumstances shall the City Council approve any permit to drill or
operate any of the below described facility within the indicated number of feet
from the city water wells.
Absorption or disposal field for water Within 500 feet
Any other well                         Within 1,000 feet
Cesspool                               Within 500 feet
Chemical product storage facility      Within 500 feet
Dumping grounds                        Within 500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff              Within 500 feet
Livestock pasture or corral            Within 500 feet
Petroleum product storage facility     Within 500 feet
Pit toilet                             Within 500 feet
Potable water well                     Within 1,000 feet
Sanitary landfill                      Within 500 feet
Septic tank                            Within 500 feet
Sewage treatment plant                 Within 500 feet
Sewage wet well                        Within 500 feet
Sewage lagoon                          Within 1,000 feet
 
(Ord. 582, passed 5-7-1996)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In the event any of the described facilities in §§
51.42 are installed or operated without first having obtained a permit from the
city and/or within a designated number of feet from the municipal water supply,
then such facilities shall be deemed a nuisance and the governing board shall
abate such facility as a public nuisance pursuant to §
93.18 of this code. In addition thereto, any person violating any of the terms
of §§
51.40 through
51.42 is hereby determined to be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation
shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to
comply.
(Ord. 582, passed 5-7-1996)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Application for permit
   
52.04   Sewer contract
   
52.05   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.06   Direct connections
   
52.07   Service contracts
   
52.08   Installation procedure
   
52.09   Installation expense
   
52.10   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.11   Classification
   
52.12   Old house sewers
   
52.13   Unlawful use
   
52.14   Special equipment
   
52.15   Manholes
   
52.16   Inspections
   
52.17   Destruction of property
   
52.18   Complaints
   
52.19   Rates
§ 52.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the sewer system through the Sewer
Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the sewer system, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Sewer
Maintenance Fund. The Sewer Commissioner shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of
his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Sewer Department
subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-574, 17-925.01) (Prior Code, § 3-201)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house
or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house and conveys it
to the building sewer beginning five feet outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the main
sewer.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle larger than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface drainage but excludes
sewage and polluted industrial waste.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 52.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application in writing therefor to the City Clerk. There shall be two classes
of building sewer permits for:
      (1)   Residential; and
      (2)   Commercial service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall accompany his or
her application with plans and specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the City Clerk. Sewer service may not be supplied
to any house or building except upon the written order of the Sewer
Commissioner. The Sewer Department shall not supply sewer service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the governing
body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges
shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate
the city to provide sewer service to non-residents.
(Neb. RS 17-574, 19-2701) (Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 52.04 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The city, through the Sewer Department, shall furnish sewer services to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The city may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the city as and when according to law the governing body
may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates
hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of the application on the part of any applicant or the
use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall constitute a contract
between the customer and the city to which said contract both parties are
bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may hereafter
adopt, the Sewer Commissioner or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the
sewer service from the building or premises of such violation. No further
connection for sewer service to said building or premises shall again be made
save or except by order of the Sewer Commissioner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 52.05 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   (A)   Upon written notice by the Sewer Commissioner, the property owner,
occupant, or lessee of any premises within 300 feet of any sewer main shall,
without delay, cause the said building to be connected with the sewer system
and equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected
shall be connected with the sewer system at the time of its construction. In
the event that any property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or
refuse within a period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her to
do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city to make such connection, the governing body shall have
the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the
property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for
collection of other special taxes and assessments.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 17-574, 17-575) (Prior Code, § 3-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line; provided, where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 52.07 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Sewer Commissioner who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should fail to
give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the Sewer
Commissioner is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 52.08 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon approval of the customer’s application, the customer shall be
responsible for actual installation from the city main to the premises to be
served.
   (B)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, vitrified clay sewer
pipe, or other suitable material approved by the Sewer Commissioner. Joints
shall be tight and waterproof. Any part of the building sewer that is located
within ten feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil
pipe with leaded joints. Cast iron pipe with leaded joints may be required by
the Sewer Commissioner where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree
roots. If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be
of cast iron soil pipe, except that non-metallic material may be accepted if
laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the Sewer
Commissioner.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (E)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Sewer Commissioner.
   (F)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain, which in turn, is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Sewer Commissioner before installation.
   (I)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall have an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade and, during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Sewer Commissioner shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work and all expense so incurred shall be charged to the
owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two inspections by the Sewer Commissioner. The first inspection
shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before the pipes are
covered. The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed
and the service restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Sewer Commissioner at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Sewer Commissioner; provided, that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   Upon arrival of the application, the customer shall pay a tap fee for a new
service in the amount of the assessment against said property as recorded by
the City Clerk and shall be responsible for all costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer. The customer shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 52.10 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe constituting
major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer to repair or
replace all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to and including
the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the customer
shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the Sewer
Commissioner; provided, that the same have been previously approved by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 52.11 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify for the purpose of rental fees, the
customers of the Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02) (Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 52.12 OLD HOUSE SEWERS.
   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new buildings or
new plumbing only when they are found on examination by the Sewer Commissioner
to conform in all respects to the requirements governing new sewers and drains.
If the old work is found defective or otherwise unsatisfactory, he or she shall
notify the owner to make the necessary changes to conform with the provisions
of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 52.13 UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, including interior and exterior foundation drains on all new
construction, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process
waters into the sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Sewer Commissioner. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the Sewer
Commissioner to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described water or wastes into the sewer system:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150ºF;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil, or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, cleaning solvent, fuel oil, other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Toxic or poisonous substances in sufficient quantity to interfere
with or injure the sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans,
animals, or fish, or create any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage
treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual
attention or expense is required to handle such materials at the sewage
treatment plant;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment, and personnel of the Sewer Department;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (10)   Any concentrated or high strength industrial wastes, such as whole
blood, whole milk, whey, eggs, or any milk processing waste and other wastes
which contain large amounts of organic materials; or
      (11)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes
having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per million
by weight; containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids; containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in division (A) above; or having an average daily flow greater than
2% of the average sewage flow of the city shall be subject to the review of the
Sewer Commissioner. Where necessary in the opinion of the Sewer Commissioner,
the owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as
may be necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per
million and the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight; reduce
objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits
provided for in division (A) above; or control the quantities and rates of
discharge of such water or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the Sewer Commissioner and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said approval is
obtained in writing.
(Neb. RS 17-145) (Prior Code, § 3-216) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   When required by the Sewer Commissioner, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Sewer Commissioner. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or
her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 52.15 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose, except by authorized
persons, is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-218) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.16 INSPECTIONS.
   The Sewer Commissioner or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 52.17 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the city sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-220) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.18 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Sewer Commissioner or City Clerk may appear before the
governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for
the use of the sewer or for the resumption of sewer service after the same
shall have been shut off shall pay such charge under protest, in which event
the City Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “paid
under protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
§ 52.19 RATES.
   (A)   Customers of the Sewer Department shall be charged the following rates
for the use of sewer service.
   (B)    Residential service is $33.50 per month and commercial service is
$35.50 per month.
(Ord. 700, passed 1-8-2020; Ord. 733, passed 9-7-2022)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC
Section
   
53.01   Operation and funding
   
53.02   Consumer’s application
   
53.03   Electric contract
   
53.04   Installation procedure
   
53.05   Repairs
   
53.06   Fees and collections
   
53.07   Rates
   
53.08   Single premises
   
53.09   Electric service contracts
   
53.10   Destruction of property
   
53.11   Complaints
   
53.12   Permit for generator
   
53.13   Billing for electric current for heating
   
53.14   Deposit
§ 53.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and operates the Electric Department through the Electric
Commissioner. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of the Electric Department may each year levy
a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Electric Fund and shall remain in the custody of the City Treasurer. The
Electric Commissioner shall have the direct management and control of the
Electric Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. The Electric Commissioner shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for efficient management of the Electric Department subject to the
supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body shall set the
rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of
the rates in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-909, 18-412) (Prior Code, § 3-1101)
§ 53.02 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of electricity must make written
application therefor to the City Clerk who shall then forward the application
to the Electric Commissioner. Electricity may not be supplied to any house or
commercial site except upon the written order of the Electric Commissioner. On
new construction, the type of service, overhead or underground, shall be at the
discretion of the Electric Commissioner with either installation dependent upon
the customer’s wishes, safety factors, convenience, location, appearance,
costs, and expected maintenance costs. The Electric Commissioner may defer any
decision on type of installation to the Mayor and City Council. On replacement
of existing primary lines, the type of installation shall be made by the Mayor
and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1102)
§ 53.03 ELECTRIC CONTRACT.
   The city through its Electric Department shall furnish electricity to
persons within its corporate limits. The city may furnish electricity to
persons whose premises are situated outside the corporate limits of the city as
and when, according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and electrical rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of application on the
part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric service by present
consumers thereof and the furnishing of electric service to said consumer shall
constitute a contract between the consumer and the city to which said contract
both parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of
said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body
may hereafter adopt, the Electric Commissioner or his or her agent may cut off
or disconnect the electric service from the building or premises or place of
such violation. No further connection for electric service to said building,
premises, or place shall again be made save or except by order of said Electric
Commissioner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-1103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   Upon approval of the consumer’s application provided and filed with the City
Clerk and upon the payment of a deposit of $75, if accompanied by a letter of
credit reference from the consumer’s prior utility supplier, or a deposit of
$150, if no letter of credit is furnished, which deposit shall be received from
all residential customers as a guarantee of payment of all electric service
charges to the City Clerk, the city shall connect said consumer at consumer’s
expense to the city electric power line, providing an electric meter and do so
under the rules and regulations as established by the Electric Commissioner.
Commercial consumers shall pay a meter deposit based on an average monthly
billing of similar business with a like electrical demand, but in no event less
than $75 if accompanied with a letter of credit reference from the consumer’s
prior utility supplier and, without said letter, a deposit of $150.
(Prior Code, § 3-1104)
§ 53.05 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the electric line up to the electric meter established at an
entry point on consumer’s structure and to the electric meter shall be made by
the city at consumer’s expense. All meters shall be tested at the customer’s
request upon payment of a $10 deposit, which shall be returned if the meter is
malfunctioning. The city reserves the right to test any electric meter at any
time and, if said meter is found to be beyond repair. The city shall always
have the right to place a new meter on the customer’s structure at customer’s
expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register properly, the customer
shall be charged for electricity during the time the meter is out of repair on
the basis of the quarterly consumption during the same quarter of the preceding
year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the customer shall
be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-1105)
§ 53.06 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the electric consumers for the use of electricity from the Electric
Department. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office
of the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall bill the consumers and collect all
money received by the city on the account of the Electric Department. He or she
shall faithfully account for and pay to the City Treasurer all revenue
collected by him or her, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate,
filing one in the Electric Department’s records, and keeping the other in his
or her own official records.
(Neb. RS 17-528.03) (Prior Code, § 3-1106)
§ 53.07 RATES.
    The following rates for electric current, water, and sewer use furnished
through the facilities of the city, to the patron thereof, be, and the same
hereby are fixed and determined as follows:
Residential Electric (June through September)*
                         Effective October 1, 2022  Effective October 1, 2023
Customer charge per month $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess, per kWh     $0.100                     $0.103
Residential Electric (October through May)*
                         Effective October 1, 2022  Effective October 1, 2023
Customer charge per month $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess, per kWh     $0.095                     $0.095
Residential Electric Heat, Separately Metered (June through September)*
                         Effective October 1, 2022  Effective October 1, 2023
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.100                     $0.103
Residential Electric Heat, Separately Metered (October through May)*
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.068                     $0.072
   Excess              $0.053                     $0.057
Residential Electric Heat, Not Separately Metered (June through September)*
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Customer charge per month $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.100                     $0.103
Residential Electric Heat, Not Separately Metered (October through May)*
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Customer charge per month $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.059                     $0.070
General Service - Electric Heat (June through September)*
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Customer charge per month $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.100                     $0.103
General Service (October through May)*
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Customer charge per month $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.095                     $0.095
General Service - Electric Heat (June through September)*
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.100                     $0.103
General Service - Electric Heat (October through May)
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.069                     $0.074
   Excess              $0.053                     $0.058
Irrigation**
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Horsepower charge         $14                        $17
Energy charge             $0.150                     $0.150
Municipal Street Lighting (June through September)
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Customer charge per month $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.100                     $0.103
Municipal Street Lighting (October through May)
                            Effective October 1,    Effective October 1,
                          2022                       2023
Customer charge           $20                        $21.50
Energy charge
   First 700 kWh       $0.113                     $0.115
   Excess              $0.095                     $0.095
* The minimum bill is the sum of the customer charge and the energy charge.
** The minimum bill is the sum of the horsepower charge and the energy charge.
 
(Prior Code, § 3-1107) (Ord. 700, passed 1-8-2020; Ord. 713, passed 3-3-2021;
Ord. 733, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 53.08 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply electricity to other families or allow them to take
electricity from his or her premises. It shall further be unlawful for any
person to tamper with any electric meter or by means of any contrivance or
device to divert the electricity from the service line so that the electricity
will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to cause
the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-1110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.09 ELECTRIC SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electric service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Electric Commissioner, who shall cause the
electric service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should
fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all electricity used
on the said premises until the Electric Commissioner is otherwise advised of
such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-1111)
§ 53.10 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, line, pole, transformer, apparatus,
fixture, attachment, or appurtenance of the Electric Department. No person may
commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the
above mentioned property without the written permission of the Electric
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 3-1112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.11 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason or any
controversy with the Electric Commissioner or City Clerk may appear before the
governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for
the use of electricity or for the resumption of electric service after the same
shall have been shut off shall pay such charge under protest, in which event
the City Clerk shall write on the receipt given such customer the words, “paid
under protest”. Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body for a refund of the
amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
governing body in the same manner as other claims against the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1113)
§ 53.12 PERMIT FOR GENERATOR.
   No consumer of the city electrical system shall connect or interface a
standby electrical generator or freestanding generator into the city electrical
distribution system without obtaining a permit from the Electrical Department
executed by the Electrical Superintendent. The Electrical Superintendent shall
not execute the said permit unless the consumer has proven to him or her that
the connection of said generator meets all of the safety requirements and will
not allow feedback of any electricity into the city electrical system and will
specifically provide that said individual and/or privately-owned generator will
have a double throw switch to provide a break before the same makes contact
with the city electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-1114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.13 BILLING FOR ELECTRIC CURRENT FOR HEATING.
   Any charges billed under the electric current exclusively for heating shall
be billed from a separate meter which shall meter only electric current used
for heating the premises and shall be installed under the direction of the
Public Works Supervisor who shall be free to inspect said meter with 24 hours’
notice to owner at his or her discretion. The property owner shall be charged
for the separate meter, a meter installing fee, and a meter removal fee, which
fee schedule shall not be applicable to air condition costs, which shall be
metered under the standard electric current schedule. If any property owner is
found to have connected any other electric currents not used for heating to the
separate meter herein provided for, the city shall have the right to
immediately remove said separate meter, and charge the property owner for all
electric current metered to him or her on said separate meter at the standard
electric rate for the preceding 12 months. The rate set out in the schedule for
electric current exclusively for heating shall apply to metering from September
18 to May 18 each year. The balance of the metered current for the remainder of
the year shall be charged at the standard electric current rate.
(Ord. 700, passed 1-8-2020; Ord. 713, passed 3-3-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Bills for electric, water, and sewer use, see §
50.03
§ 53.14 DEPOSIT.
    A deposit of not less than $75 with a letter of credit from a previous
utility shall be required of all residential customers who own the residential
property for which electric service is requested as a guarantee that they will
pay their electric service charge. A deposit of $150 will be required if no
letter of credit is available. A deposit of not less than $300 shall be
required of all residential customers who rent the residential property for
which electric service is requested as a guarantee that they will pay their
electric service charge. The foregoing $300 deposit will be waived, and a $75
deposit charged, for any residential customer who rents the property for which
electric service is requested if the owner of said property agrees to sign a
written guarantee obligating said owner to pay any balance due for electrical
service left unpaid by the tenant’s vacation of said property.
(Ord. 700, passed 1-8-2020; Ord. 713, passed 3-3-2021; Ord. 733, passed 9-7-
2022)
Cross-reference:
   Bills for electric, water, and sewer use, see §
50.03
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Garbage and refuse
Landfill
   
54.15   Definitions
   
54.16   Garbage removal
   
54.17   Garbage dumpster empty
   
54.18   Recycling collection point
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE LOOSE RECYCLING. Newspapers, magazines, cardboard, paper, glass,
aluminum cans, steel cans, plastic types one through five (no lids).
   AGGREGATE RECYCLING. Brick, stone, concrete, asphalt, sand, dirt, gravel,
rock.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, rags, litter, debris that is not an immediate
hazard to the health of the residents of the city or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   GREEN WASTE. Wood chips, raw lumber, trees, tree branches, saw dust, sticks,
twigs, tree leaves, cut grass, shrubbery, weeds.
   METAL RECYCLING. Discarded metal appliances, mowers, bicycles, scrap metal,
wire, automobile parts.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Toilet, carpet, linoleum, construction debris, tires, non-
raw lumber, dead animals. Any other litter or debris that is not an immediate
hazard to the health of the residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, light bulbs, oil, paint. Any other litter or
debris that is an immediate hazard to the health of the residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) (Ord. 741, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 54.02 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city shall
remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the city shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads, or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division (B)
above if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the Mayor, assess the cost of the removal against the lot
or land.
(Neb. RS 18-1752) (Prior Code, § 4-204) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
LANDFILL
§ 54.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED CONTAINER.
      (1)   A container which does protect the contents from the elements,
animals, rodents, is not cracked, has a lid, and the like;
      (2)   A container which does not exceed a capacity of 50 gallons;
      (3)   A container which is not unreasonably heavy or cumbersome; and
      (4)   All containers will be approved by the Public Works Supervisor.
      (5)   Any container that does not protect the contents from the elements,
animals, rodents will not be emptied.
(Prior Code, § 3-901)
   GARBAGE.
      (1)   The articles directly associated with personal consumption and
private household use. Such articles shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Food;
         (b)   Food waste;
         (c)   CDs;
         (d)   Single use plastics;
         (e)   Plastic bags and soft plastics;
         (f)   Clear plastic and Styrofoam cups;
         (g)   plastic wrap;
         (h)   Styrofoam products, packaging, and peanuts;
         (i)   Plastic container lids and caps; and
         (j)   Crockery;
         (k)   *Some items of rubbish, trash, waste - fees apply.
      (2)   NOT GARBAGE
         (a)   Acceptable recycling;
         (b)   Green waste;
         (c)   Aggregate recycling;
         (d)   Metal recycling;
         (e)   Rubbish, trash, waste;
         (f)   Any other articles which the City Council may determine to be
not reasonably capable of being removed in a safe, sanitary, or economical
manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-902) (Ord. 741, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 54.16 GARBAGE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Generally. The city shall collect and remove from each residence and
business establishment within the present and future corporate limits of the
city, and all residences, non- residences, and business establishments
receiving city water and/or sewer service. All garbage must be secured in a
tied bag, contained within an approved container, and placed upon or
immediately adjacent to the street nearest to such residence over which a
garbage route is established and at the time for which said garbage route is
scheduled.
   (B)   Service fee. The monthly garbage removal service fee shall be listed
on the master fee schedule available on the city webpage and at the city
administration building for residential, non- residential, and commercial
service. Commercial rates shall be set per business. Rates may be modified by
the governing body of the city from time to time.
   (C)   Service provided weekly. Garbage removal service referred to herein
shall be provided to each and every residence within the present and future
corporate limits of the city, not less than once each week.
   (D)   Non-residential, business, and institution garbage removal service.
Any garbage removal service provided by the city to any non-residential
customers, as well as businesses and institutions within the present and future
corporate limits of the city shall be governed by the terms, rates, and
provisions agreed upon between such non-residential, business, and institution
customers and the city.
(Prior Code, §§ 3-903 - 3-907) (Ord. 703, passed 3-2-2020; Ord. 741, passed 6-
14-2023)
§ 54.17 GARBAGE DUMPSTER EMPTY.
   (A)   Generally. The city shall empty dumpsters from each residence and
business establishment within the present and future corporate limits of the
city, and all residences, non-residences, and business establishments receiving
city water and/or sewer service. The Public Works Supervisor may choose to add/
deny additional garbage pickup locations outside of the corporate limit.
      (1)   All two-yard dumpsters will be approved by the Public Works
Supervisor;
      (2)   All garbage must be secured in a two-yard dumpster;
      (3)   Dumpster must have attached lids that close on the dumpster to
limit animal, weather, or other access;
      (4)   Dumpster must have four casters that work as designed;
      (5)   (a)   Dumpster container cannot have holes from damage or rust or
other that allow garbage to fall out;
         (b)   Dumpster containers that do have holes allowing garbage to fall
out, will not be emptied;
      (6)   Garbage in dumpster should be bagged if baggable;
      (7)   Garbage in dumpster should not prevent lids from closing;
      (8)   (a)   Dumpster lids shall be accessible, no garbage will be placed
on top of lids;
         (b)   Lids that are not accessible, dumpster will not be emptied;
      (9)   Dumpster shall be accessible for empty as scheduled;
      (10)   Dumpster blocked or not accessible will not be emptied;
   (B)   Service fee. The monthly garbage removal service fee shall be listed
on the master fee schedule available on the city webpage and at the city
administration building for residential, non- residential, and commercial
service. Commercial rates shall be set per business. Rates may be modified by
the governing body of the city from time to time.
   (C)   Service provided weekly. Garbage removal service referred to herein
shall be provided to each and every residence within the present and future
corporate limits of the city, not less than once each week.
   (D)   Non-residential, business, and institution garbage removal service.
Any garbage removal service provided by the city to any non-residential
customers, as well as businesses and institutions within the present and future
corporate limits of the city, shall be governed by the terms, rates, and
provisions agreed upon between such non-residential, business, and institution
customers and the city.
(Ord. 741, passed 6-14-2023)
§ 54.18 RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT.
   (A)   Generally. The city shall provide a recycling collection point where
residential, non- residential, and business customers of the city can bring
accepted recycling materials and segregate into appropriate areas.
   (B)   Service fee. No monthly service fee, however improper dumping may
result in a fine from the Public Works Supervisor of up to $100 for each
occurrence.
   (C)   Items accepted.
      (1)   Acceptable loose recycling. Newspapers, magazines, cardboard,
paper, glass, aluminum cans, steel cans, plastic types one through five (no
lids).
      (2)   Aggregate recycling. Brick, stone, concrete, asphalt, sand, dirt,
gravel, rock.
      (3)   Green waste. Wood chips, raw lumber, trees, tree branches, saw
dust, sticks, twigs, tree leaves, cut grass, shrubbery, weeds.
      (4)   Metal recycling. Discarded metal appliances, mowers, bicycles,
scrap metal, wire, automobile parts.
(Ord. 741, passed 6-14-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.03   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.06   Placement and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.07   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.08   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.09   Obedience to traffic-control devices; exceptions
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
 
   
70.99   Traffic infractions; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
state Department of Transportation or City Council as a SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE
through the use of a sign or traffic-control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the Manual but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic-control device identifying the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE and continues until
a sign or traffic-control device indicates that the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE has
ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the City Council or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the Nebraska Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating
traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in
this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, other powered
vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices, and vehicles which are
not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such vehicles without the
permission of the City Council or its designated representative or in a place,
time, or manner which has been prohibited by the City Council shall be guilty
of an offense.
   (B)   The City Council may further authorize the supervising official of any
area under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit operation
of any motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational vehicle of
any or all types, other powered vehicle, electric personal assistive mobility
device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on all or any portion of any
area under its ownership or control at any time by posting or, in case of an
emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating any such vehicle where
prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to endanger the peace and
safety of the public or as to harm or destroy the natural features or humanmade
features of any such area shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing, or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic-control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.04 of this code;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds, and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(22), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not erect or maintain any traffic-control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17), or
(A)(19) shall be effective until traffic- control devices giving notice of such
local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such affected
highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation
of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of
vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar year,
when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The City Council shall erect or
cause to be erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the
ordinance or resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected
thereby, and the ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such
signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The City Council shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly contrary
to the Nebraska Rules of the Road unless expressly authorized by the
Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.06 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain such traffic-control devices upon
highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to carry
out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. All
such traffic-control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform with
the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of Nebraska Rules of the Road and this
title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or city law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the
highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
insure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of Nebraska, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles, or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.08 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes
has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the Nebraska Rules
of the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic-
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic-control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic-control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the Nebraska Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law, or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication,
or a stop sign but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb, or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least 1 lighted
light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections Neb. RS 60-
6,288 to 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.99 TRAFFIC INFRACTIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this title shall constitute a traffic
infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this title for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period;
and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a one-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.002   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.003   Interference with traffic-control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.004   Signs, markers, devices, or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.005   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
Speed Limits
   
71.020   Basic rule
   
71.021   Maximum limits
   
71.022   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.023   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.024   Near schools
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
71.035   Littering
   
71.036   Glass; pointed objects
   
71.037   Signs
   
71.038   Electronic speed detector
   
71.039   Drunken driving
   
71.040   Reckless driving
   
71.041   Willful reckless driving
   
71.042   Careless driving
   
71.043   Negligent driving
   
71.044   Backing
   
71.045   Unnecessary stopping
   
71.046   Passing; intersections
   
71.047   Driving abreast
   
71.048   Following; fire apparatus
   
71.049   Crowding; front seat
   
71.050   Riding; outside vehicle
   
71.051   Driving in sidewalk space
   
71.052   Vehicle; muffler
   
71.053   Wrongful taking of motor vehicle
   
71.054   Emergency; regulations
   
71.055   Police
   
71.056   Loads
   
71.057   Engine braking
Truck Routes
   
71.070   Definitions
   
71.071   Application of regulations
   
71.072   Exceptions
   
71.073   Truck traffic in city; outside origin
   
71.074   Truck traffic in city; inside origin
   
71.075   Maps
   
71.076   Signs
   
71.077   Weigh-in
 
   
71.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council with respect to highways under its jurisdiction may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of such island.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138)
§ 71.002 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any traffic-control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign, or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES, OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages, or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic-control devices, traffic surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter, or
knock down any sign, traffic-control device, or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county, or the city, to
remove any sign, traffic-control device, or traffic surveillance device placed
along a highway for traffic-control, warning, or informational purposes by
official action of the department, county, or city. It shall be unlawful for
any person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation of
this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating divisions (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic-control device, or traffic surveillance device and the cost
of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one-inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat, or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than 7/64 of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except that school buses,
mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal
or metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250)
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.020 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.020 of this subchapter, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-
6,187, 60-6,188, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds
unless reduced pursuant to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a
vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; or
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway, or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the City Council pursuant to §
71.023 of this subchapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
divisions (A) or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct, or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the City Council may conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the City Council shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
City Council and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge
or structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place, or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place, or part of such highway which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place, or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the City
Council shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits as
the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic investigation,
except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are part of the
state highway system in the city shall be effective without the approval of the
Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph.
   (D)   When the Department or the City Council determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.021 and
71.022 of this subchapter and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 or set
pursuant to this section, §
71.022 of this subchapter, or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the City
Council may restrict the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its
respective jurisdiction and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.024 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 71.035 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop or cause to be left upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (Prior Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.036 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns,
nails, tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of or
containing glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any street, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person
responsible for such breakage shall at once remove or cause the same to be
removed from the street. (Neb. RS 39-311) (Prior Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.037 SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) (Prior Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.038 ELECTRONIC SPEED DETECTOR.
   (A)   The speed of any motor vehicle within the city may be determined by
the use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such
determinations shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the speed of such
motor vehicle in any court or legal proceedings where the speed of the motor
vehicle is at issue.
   (B)   The driver of any such motor vehicle may be arrested without a warrant
under the authority herein granted if the arresting officer is in uniform or
displays his or her badge of authority; provided, that such officer shall have
observed the recording of the speed of such motor vehicle by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device or had received a radio message from the
officer who observed the speed of the motor vehicle recorded by the radio
microwaves or other electronic device. In the event of an arrest based on such
a message, such radio message must have been dispatched immediately after the
speed of the motor vehicle had been recorded and must include a description of
the vehicle and the recorded speed.
(Neb. RS 60-6,192) (Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 71.039 DRUNKEN DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in actual physical
control of any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
of any drug. Any person who shall operate or be in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug
shall be deemed guilty of a crime and, upon conviction thereof, such person
shall be punished as provided by state law. For purposes of this section, the
determination of whether an individual is under the influence of either alcohol
or drugs shall be as prescribed in the state statutes.
(Neb. RS 60-6,196, 60-6,203) (Prior Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.040 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving and, as such, shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Neb. RS 39-103, 60-6,196, 60-4,182) (Prior Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.041 WILLFUL RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of willful
reckless driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in a careless manner or without due
caution and circumspection in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger a person or property, shall be guilty of careless driving and shall be
punished as provided by statute.
(Neb. RS 60-4,182) (Prior Code, § 5-311) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.043 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person or ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Neb. RS 60-4,182) (Prior Code, § 5-312) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.044 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the city
streets except to park in, or to remove the vehicle from, a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety, and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-313) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.045 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-314) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.046 PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction while traversing a street intersection if such
passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the center of
the street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,136) (Prior Code, § 5-315) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.047 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing or when
traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be driven
no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Neb. RS 60-6,139, 60-6,308) (Prior Code, § 5-316) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183) (Prior Code, § 5-317) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.049 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,179) (Prior Code, § 5-318) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.050 RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-319) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.051 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk space except
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,178) (Prior Code, § 5-320) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.052 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within the city shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake muffler, or any
other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such that the noise
emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured. It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any
motor vehicle upon any street; provided, the provisions of this section shall
not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,286, 60-6,370) (Prior Code, § 5-321) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.053 WRONGFUL TAKING OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Whoever wrongfully takes any automobile or motorcycle from a garage or any
other place where the same may have been lawfully placed without the consent of
the owner or who shall use any motor vehicle in bailment beyond that use which
was originally intended or agreed upon with intent to wrongfully use the
automobile or motorcycle so taken, shall be guilty of wrongful taking of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided by law.
(Neb. RS 28-516) (Prior Code, § 5-322) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.054 EMERGENCY; REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-323)
§ 71.055 POLICE.
   (A)   Enforcement. The police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered
to exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-683) (Prior Code, § 5-324)
   (B)   Refusal to obey. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail
to comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-325)
   (C)   Traffic officers. The governing body or the Municipal Police may at
any time detail officers to be known as “traffic officers” at street
intersections. All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to
regulate and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned.
It shall be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion
and accidents. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or
signal of any such traffic officer, notwithstanding the directive of a stop
sign or signal device which may have been placed at any such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-683, 60-6,222) (Prior Code, § 5-326)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 LOADS.
   (A)   Projecting. When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any
portion of the load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or
the body of such vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches, both in length
and width, shall be carried by day and red light after sunset at the extreme
rear end of such load.
(Neb. RS 60-6,243) (Prior Code, § 5-327)
   (B)   Spilling. All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand,
gravel, rock, asphalt, tar, or any similar substance shall be so constructed as
to prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Neb. RS 60-6,304) (Prior Code, § 5-328)
§ 71.057 ENGINE BRAKING.
   A person commits the offense of engine braking if the person is operating a
motor vehicle on a street or highway and uses an unmuffled engine brake. The
offense described in this section, engine braking, is a traffic infraction. A
person is not in violation of this section if the person uses an unmuffled
engine brake in an emergency situation to avoid imminent danger to a person or
to property.
(Ord. 701, passed 2-5-2020) Penalty, see §
71.999
TRUCK ROUTES
§ 71.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVIATING TRUCK. A truck which leaves and departs from the truck route while
traveling in the city.
   TRUCK. Any vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of property,
and whose body weight or whose combined body and load weight, or whose rated
capacity exceeds 15,000 pounds.
   TRUCK ROUTE. A way over certain streets, as designated in this subchapter,
over and along which trucks coming into and going out of the city must operate.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
§ 71.071 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   All trucks within the city shall be operated only over and along the truck
routes established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
§ 71.072 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not prohibit:
   (A)   Operation on street of destination. The operation of trucks upon any
street where necessary to the conduct of business at a destination point,
provided streets upon which such traffic is permitted are used until reaching
the intersection nearest the destination point;
   (B)   Emergency vehicles. The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street in the city;
   (C)   Public utilities. The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
city, public utilities, any contractor or material person, while engaged in the
repair, maintenance, or construction of streets, street improvements, or street
utilities within the city; or
   (D)   Detoured trucks. The operation of trucks upon any officially
established detour in any case where such truck could lawfully be operated upon
the street for which such detour is established.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
§ 71.073 TRUCK TRAFFIC IN CITY; OUTSIDE ORIGIN.
   (A)   One inside destination point. All trucks entering the city for a
destination point in the city shall proceed only over an established truck
route and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street nearest to the
destination point. Upon leaving the destination point, a deviating truck shall
return to the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
   (B)   Multiple inside destination points. All trucks entering the city for
multiple destination points shall proceed only over established truck routes
and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street nearest to the first
destination point. Upon leaving the first destination point, a deviating truck
shall proceed to the other destination points by the shortest direction. Upon
leaving the last destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck
route by the shortest permissible route.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
§ 71.074 TRUCK TRAFFIC IN CITY; INSIDE ORIGIN.
   (A)   Outside destination point. All trucks on a trip originating in the
city, and traveling in the city for a destination point outside the city, shall
proceed by the shortest direction over streets on which such traffic is
permitted to a truck route established by this subchapter.
   (B)   Inside destination points. All trucks on a trip originating in the
city, and traveling in the city for destination points in the city shall
proceed as provided in §
71.073.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
§ 71.075 MAPS.
    The City Clerk shall keep and maintain accurate maps setting out the truck
route and streets upon which truck traffic is permitted.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011; Ord. 722, passed 1-5-2022)
§ 71.076 SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police shall cause all truck routes to be clearly sign-posted
and to give notice that this subchapter is in effect.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
§ 71.077 WEIGH-IN.
   The Chief of Police shall have authority to require any person driving or in
control of any commercial vehicle, not proceeding over a truck route or street
over which truck traffic is permitted, to proceed to any public or private
scale available for the purpose of weighing and determining whether this
subchapter has been complied with.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum speed
limit established for any highway or freeway is guilty of a traffic infraction
and upon conviction shall be fined:
      (1)   Ten dollars for traveling one to five mph over the authorized speed
limit;
      (2)   Twenty-five dollars for traveling over five mph but not over ten
mph over the authorized speed limit;
      (3)   Seventy-five dollars for traveling over ten mph but not over 15 mph
over the authorized speed limit;
      (4)   One hundred twenty-five dollars for traveling over 15 mph but not
over 20 mph over the authorized speed limit;
      (5)   Two hundred dollars for traveling over 20 mph but not over 35 mph
over the authorized speed limit; and
      (6)   Three hundred dollars for traveling over 35 mph over the authorized
speed limit.
   (C)   (1)   The fines prescribed in division (B) above shall be doubled if
the violation occurs within a maintenance, repair, or construction zone
established pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
         (a)   1.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or moving
signs as being under maintenance, repair, or construction; or
            2.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance, repair, or
construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188; and
            3.   Within such portion of a highway where road construction
workers are present.
         (b)   The maintenance, repair, or construction zone starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair, or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair, or construction zone has ended.
   (D)   The fines prescribed in division (B) above shall be doubled if the
violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (E)   The offense described in §
71.057, engine braking, is a traffic infraction with a fine of $100.
(Ord. 701, passed 2-5-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 60-682.01
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Unattended vehicles
   
72.02   Designation of parking
   
72.03   Parking areas
   
72.04   Obstructing alley
   
72.05   Business district unloading
   
72.06   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.07   Street intersections
   
72.08   Obstructing traffic
   
72.09   Curb
   
72.10   Painted curbs
   
72.11   Display or repair
   
72.12   Time limit
   
72.13   Maximum time limit
   
72.14   Snow removal and maintenance
   
72.15   Emergency vehicles
   
72.16   Bureau of violations
   
72.17   Parking tickets
   
72.18   Summons; destruction
§ 72.01 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle
when traveling upon a down grade upon any street shall not coast with the gears
of the vehicle in neutral. (Neb. RS 60-6,168) (Prior Code, § 5-601) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 72.02 DESIGNATION OF PARKING.
   The governing body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-603)
§ 72.03 PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   All parking on the street right-of-way on all platted north-south
residential streets in the city shall only be allowed on the west side of said
street right-of-way, and no parking on the east side of said street shall be
allowed. All parking on the street right-of-way on all platted east-west
residential streets in the city shall only be allowed on the south side of said
street right-of-way, and no parking on the north side of said street shall be
allowed. No parking shall be allowed which blocks entrances to private drives,
off-street parking areas, and alleys.
      (1)   All parking on the west side of residential street right-of-way in
the 200 block of North Bridge Street shall not be allowed during school hours.
Any vehicle in which parking in violation of this section shall be subject to
tow of vehicles and penalty, see §
70.99 .
      (2)   All parking on the west side of residential street right-of-way in
the 300 block of North Bridge Street shall not be allowed. Any vehicle which in
parking in violation of this section shall be subject to tow of vehicle and
penalty, see §
70.99 .
   (B)   Any vehicle which is parked in violation of this section for a time
period of more than 24 hours shall be towed away by the Police Department and
held by said department until the owner of said vehicle pays all costs involved
with the removal of said vehicle as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 5-604) (Ord. 743, passed 8-8-2023) Penalty, see §  
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Truck parking, see
Ch. 75, Sch. II
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-605) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 BUSINESS DISTRICT UNLOADING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall length of
more than 20 feet to stop or park any such vehicle on a street or alley within
the business district, except to load or unload, and then only when loading or
unloading in an alley is impossible. Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of
time not to exceed what is reasonably necessary to load or unload. It shall be
unlawful for the operator of any truck, regardless of length, to park said
vehicle within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private
driveway, or on a sidewalk. The governing body may, by resolution, provide
truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent to the business district and, when
such parking areas are provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to
use such parking areas for all parking purposes. No truck, including oil
tankers, shall park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any
street outside the business district, except for the purpose of loading or
unloading the cargo thereof in the ordinary course of business, except in the
area or areas provided by the governing body by resolution.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-606) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 5-607) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic-control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines.
(Prior Code, § 5-608) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-609) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
said street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the governing body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 5-610) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 PAINTED CURBS.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to cause the curb space to
be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter. No person,
firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street or in any manner set
aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street or part
thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the city through its proper officers at the direction of the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the
motor of same while standing on the public streets or alleys of the city,
excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or
employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets,
or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-612) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 TIME LIMIT.
   The governing body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a time limit
for the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or district
designated by such resolution, and the parking or stopping of any vehicle in
any such street, streets, or district for a period of time longer than fixed in
such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-613) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 48
consecutive hours is unlawful except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
   (B)   The parking of any wagon, trailer, or unlicensed item of equipment or
off-road vehicle on a public street is prohibited, except temporarily for the
purpose of loading or unloading, repair, or other reasonable purpose, and in no
event shall any such item remain parked upon the public street for any period
of time within the business district, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5-614) (Ord. 625, passed 7-5-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be parked on any other
street in the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. when snow
removal operations are in progress on the streets of said city.
   (B)   If any motor vehicles are parked on said streets during said hours
when snow removal operations are in progress, the Street Department of the city
is hereby authorized to cause removal of, or to remove, any such vehicles
parked on the streets as above set out in violation of this chapter and to
impound the same in the city buildings, and to release said vehicles to the
owners upon the payment of any towing charges incurred by the city in removing
said vehicles, and upon payment of a storage charge of $1 per day.
(Prior Code, § 5-615) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Snow removal parking, see
Ch. 75, Sch. III
§ 72.15 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles while the
driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an emergency in the necessary
performance of public duties.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114) (Prior Code, § 5-616)
§ 72.16 BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
   There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and
duties of the office of the City Clerk. A copy of each citation issued for non-
moving traffic violations shall be deposited with the City Clerk, whose duty it
shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate records
of all such fines paid to him or her. Fines shall be payable at the office of
the City Clerk. Such fines shall be in the amount of $5 for each violation,
unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, and if paid within 30 days from
the date of issuance. Should any such fine not be paid within the 30-day
period, the City Clerk shall ask the City Attorney to file a complaint in the
appropriate court. The fine for any such violation after 30 days or after
judgment is entered against the violator shall be $5 plus costs. All money
collected by the City Clerk under this section shall be transferred to the
school district in which the city lies.
(Neb. RS 18-1729) (Prior Code, § 5-617)
§ 72.17 PARKING TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of non-moving traffic regulations
contained in this title shall, in addition to information normally stated on
such tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
(Neb. RS 18-1729) (Prior Code, § 5-618)
§ 72.18 SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up or destroy a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the city police or to disregard the summons
contained on such tag and fail to appear in court as directed by said tag.
(Prior Code, § 5-619) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Off-road vehicles
   
73.02   Bicycles
   
73.03   Snowmobiles
   
73.04   Utility type vehicles (UTVs)
§ 73.01 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Generally. No person, unless they have reached the age of 16 years and
hold a valid state driver’s license, shall at any time operate an off-road
vehicle including, but not limited to, golf cart, riding lawnmower, garden
tractor, and skid loader on the streets of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)
   (B)   Daylight hours; restrictions. Off-road vehicles including golf carts,
riding lawnmowers, garden tractors, and skid loaders may be operated on the
streets or alleys of the city only during daylight hours, unless said vehicles
are equipped with both front and back operational lights.
(Prior Code, § 5-213)
   (C)   Restricted use of streets. Riding lawnmowers, garden tractors, and
skid loaders may be driven on the streets or alleys of the city from their
place of permanent storage directly to their work site using the most direct
route. Golf carts may be driven on the streets or alleys of the city from their
place of permanent storage directly to the Randolph Community Golf Course
addition using the most direct route and using first public alleys of the city
when said alleys are in usable and safe condition. In no event shall golf carts
be operated on Broadway Street between its intersection with Douglas Street and
Nebraska Street and on Main Street between its intersection with Hughson Street
and Wayne Street.
(Neb. RS 60-678, 60-6,347 through 60-6,353) (Prior Code, § 5-214)
   (D)   Slow moving emblem. Any off-road vehicle including golf cart, riding
lawnmower, garden tractor, and skid loader which is operated on the streets or
alleys of the city shall display a slow-moving vehicle emblem defined as a
base-down equilateral triangle of fluorescent yellow-orange film with a base of
14 inches and an altitude of 12 inches, said triangle being bordered with
reflective red strips having a minimum width of one and three-fourths inches.
(Prior Code, § 5-215)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Operation.
      (1)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other
public highway of the city with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
      (2)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper,
but every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
      (3)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
      (4)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight visible under normal atmospheric conditions from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle
firmly attached to such bicycle and properly lighted or without a yellow or red
light reflector attached to and visible 500 feet from the rear thereof. The
said headlight shall give a clear, white light.
      (5)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
      (6)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or
other public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the
right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting.
      (7)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle
stand is located on said sidewalk.
      (8)   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district defined as sidewalks adjacent to Broadway Street from Pierce Street to
Cedar Street; Main Street from Park Street to Hughson Street; Douglas Street
from Park Street to Hughson Street.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
   (B)   Clinging to motor vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle or
roller skates shall attach the same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle
upon any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
suffer or permit any person traveling upon any bicycle or roller skates to
cling to or attach himself or herself or his or her bicycle or roller skates to
such vehicle so driven and operated by him or her.
(Neb. RS 60-6,316) (Prior Code, § 5-402)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to
allow a snowmobile, either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
      (1)   Within the business district of the city, unless weather conditions
are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe vehicular travel
or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
      (2)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
      (3)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger
person or property;
      (4)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be
required by conditions;
      (5)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or
destroys growing stock; or
      (6)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of
the owner, lessee, or operator of such lands.
(Neb. RS 60-6,337, 60-6,338) (Prior Code, § 5-501)
   (B)   On public lands. Snowmobiles may be operated upon public lands owned
by the city; provided, such operation is done in a manner which does not
endanger others using the lands and the snow covering the land is of such depth
and consistency so as to make reasonably certain vegetation will not be
destroyed or damaged by such operation.
(Neb. RS 60-6,338) (Prior Code, § 5-502)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 UTILITY TYPE VEHICLES (UTVS).
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is 50
inches or less in width; has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less; travels on
three or more low-pressure tires; is designed for operator use only with no
passengers or is specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the
operator and one passenger; has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by
the operator; has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control; and has a minimum motor displacement of 300 cubic centimeters (cc).
         STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles may be operated on streets and highways within
the corporate limits of the city only if the operator and the vehicle comply
with the provisions of this section.
      (3)   An all-terrain vehicle may be operated from sunrise to sunset and
shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 25 mph, unless otherwise posted.
      (4)   When operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in division (B)
below, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on at all times when
operating within the corporate limits.
      (5)   When operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in division (B)
below, all loads being transported on said all-terrain vehicle must be properly
and completely secured to said vehicle.
      (6)   Owners must purchase and install a safety flag on the vehicle that
will be registered, the safety flag shall extend not less than five feet above
ground and be attached to the rear of such vehicle, and the safety flag shall
be triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall
be day-glow in color.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual
physical control of any all-terrain vehicle upon the traveled portion of any
public roadway within the corporate limits of the city, except as provided in
Neb. RS 60-6,356 or as specifically authorized and permitted under the terms of
this section.
   (B)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized herein
shall:
      (1)   Be 17 years of age or older and have a valid Class O operator’s
license issued by the state;
      (2)   Have liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle while
operating the all-terrain vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating
the all-terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
law enforcement officer at the time of requesting such proof; and
      (3)   Have a valid permit that is issued by the City Clerk permitting the
operation of an all-terrain vehicle within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   (1)   In order to obtain a permit to operate an all-terrain vehicle
within the corporate limits of the city, an applicant must make an annual
application at the office of the City Clerk and provide the following
information:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Proof of insurance for the all-terrain vehicle(s) to be operated
within the city by the applicant;
         (c)   Valid Class O operator’s license issued by the state; and
         (d)   Year, make, model, color, engine size, and vehicle
identification number (VIN) of the all-terrain vehicle to be operated within
the city by the applicant.
      (2)   In addition, the all-terrain vehicle must pass inspection by the
Police Department to ensure that the all-terrain vehicle meets the following
requirements:
         (a)   At least one headlight and taillight that is operational;
         (b)   A safety flag in compliance with division (A) above;
         (c)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
         (d)   A muffler system in good working condition properly attached to
the all-terrain vehicle which reduces the noise of operation of the motor to
the minimum necessary for operation. The muffler shall not be audible for a
distance of more than 500 feet. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass,
straight pipe, or similar device on an all-terrain vehicle; and
         (e)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
      (3)   Upon compliance with division (C) and payment of a permit fee of
$25, the City Clerk shall issue the applicant a permit to operate the
designated all-terrain vehicle(s) with the corporate limits of the city and a
permit plate to attach to the all-terrain vehicle.
      (4)   Permits to operate an all-terrain vehicle shall be valid from the
date of issuance until 12:00 a.m. on January 3 of the year for which the permit
is issued. Annual renewal period shall be from December 1 to January 3.
      (5)   The permit plate shall be prominently displayed on the rear fender
or similar component on the rear of the all-terrain vehicle.
   (D)   All-terrain vehicles may be operated without complying with these
provisions on streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city in
parades which have been authorized by the state or any department, board,
commission, or political subdivision of the state. All-terrain vehicles used by
governmental agencies in the pursuit of their duties shall be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
      (1)   An all-terrain vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
control-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted.
      (2)   Subject to division (D)(1) above, the crossing of a street or
highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle of this section only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
         (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Neb. RS 60-6,356)
      (3)   All-terrain vehicles are prohibited from being operated on the
sidewalks or walking trails of the city.
      (4)   Permitted all-terrain vehicles utilized by (EMS) emergency medical
services or city personnel enroute to emergencies may be used at any time of
the day.
   (E)   In addition to this section, the operator of an all-terrain vehicle
within the corporate limits of the city shall comply with, and is subject to,
all traffic regulations of the city and the state, including but not limited
to, those laws, ordinances, or regulations pertaining to the operation or being
in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of
alcoholic liquor or any drug. When making turns within the roadways and at
intersections, the operator shall use the appropriate hand-signals as
designated by the Nebraska Rules of the Road.
   (F)   (1)   Utility type vehicles (UTVs) shall adhere to all of the
guidelines set forth for all-terrain vehicles.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES.
            1.   Vehicles weighing between 900 and 2,000 pounds with:
               a.   Widths between 48 and 74 inches;
               b.   Lengths no more than 135 inches;
               c.   Four or more low-pressure tires;
               d.   Steering wheels; and
               e.   Bench or bucket-type seating for at least two people to sit
side by side.
            2.   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES does not include golf carts or low speed
vehicles as defined by state law.
   (G)   (1)   All equipment violations under division (C)(2) above shall be
punished as provided:
         (a)   First offense issuance of a defect card. ATV or UTV shall not be
allowed to operate in the corporate limits until unit is in compliance and
inspected by the Police Department;
         (b)   Failure to comply with corrective actions or defect card shall
result in a $50 fine, per incident; and
         (c)   Fines shall be paid within 30 days of issuance. Fines not paid
within the 30 days of issuance result in immediate revocation of ATV or UTV
permit and tag.
      (2)   All operator violations under divisions (C) and (E) above shall be
punished as provided:
         (a)   Subsequent operator violations that accrue to a third offense in
a calendar year shall constitute the revocation of operator privileges and city
ATV or UTV permit for 12 months; and
         (b)   Upon completion of the revocation period, said person must
reapply for a permit in order to operate an all-terrain (ATV) or utility type
(UTV) within the city limits.
(Ord. 655, passed 12-17-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   Speed limits have been set by ordinance on the following streets and have
been appropriately posted. No person shall operate a motor vehicle on these
streets at a speed greater than the following speed limits:
 
Location                                                    Speed Limit
Broadway Street from Douglas Street to Nebraska Street      15 mph
Federal Highway #20 within the corporate limits of the city 45 mph
Main Street from Wayne Street to Hughson Street             15 mph
 
(Prior Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   There is established within the city the following truck route.
Street Location
Street            Location
Bridge Street     South from its intersection with U.S. Highway 20 to its
                  intersection with Wayne Street
Broadway Street   East from its intersection with U.S. Highway 20 to its
                  intersection with Washington Street
Cedar Street      South from its intersection with U.S. Highway 20 to its
                  intersection with Broadway Street
Main Street       South from its intersection with U.S. Highway 20 to its
                  intersection with Park Street
Nebraska Street   South from its intersection with Wayne Street to its
                  intersection with Park Street
Park Street       West from its intersection with Nebraska Street to its
                  intersection with Main Street
Washington Street North from its intersection with Broadway Street to its
                  intersection with U.S. Highway 20
Wayne Street      East then southeast, from its intersection with Main Street
                  to its intersection with Bridge Street
 
   (B)   All trucks entering the city shall operate only over and along the
route designated in this section.
(Ord. 647, passed 4-6-2011)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Angle and parallel parking zones
      
II.   Truck parking
      
III.   Snow removal parking
SCHEDULE I. ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle or permit it to stand whether
attended or unattended upon the following streets, unless said motor vehicle is
parked not more than one tier deep at an angle of about 45 degrees on either
side of portions of said streets:
 
Street          Intersection
Broadway Street From its intersection with Douglas Street to its intersection
                with Nebraska Street
Main Street     From its intersection with Wayne Street to its intersection
                with Hughson Street
 
   (B)   On streets and avenues elsewhere within the corporate limits, unless
otherwise indicated by stalls, traffic signs, or standards, all vehicles when
parked shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb.
(Prior Code, § 5-602) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle generally described as a truck,
whether it be a straight truck, tractor-trailer combination, or other vehicle
referred to as a truck which is licensed to a capacity of four or more tons, on
any residential street of the city at any time, except for a temporary period
for the purpose of loading and unloading.
   (B)   The provisions of §
72.03(A) of this title shall not apply to parking on:
 
Street          Intersection
Broadway Street Between their intersection with Douglas Street and ending with
                their intersection with Nebraska Street
Hughson Street  Between their intersection with Douglas Street and ending with
                their intersection with Nebraska Street
Wayne Street    Between their intersection with Douglas Street and ending with
                their intersection with Nebraska Street
 
   (C)   The provisions of §
72.03 and division (A) above shall not apply to parking on the following
streets:
 
Street          Intersection
Douglas Street  Between its intersection with Wayne Street and United States
                Highway No. 30
Main Street     Between their intersection with Park Street and ending with
                their intersection with United States Highway No. 20
Nebraska Street Between their intersection with Park Street and ending with
                their intersection with United States Highway No. 20
 
(Prior Code, § 5-604) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking areas, see §
72.03
SCHEDULE III. SNOW REMOVAL PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be parked in the city on the
following streets between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. when snow
removal operations are in progress on said streets:
 
Street          Between
Broadway Street Pierce Street and Nebraska Street
Main Street     Hughson Street and Wayne Street
 
(Prior Code, § 5-615) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Snow removal and maintenance, see §
72.14
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
94.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
95.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Generally
   
90.01   Running at large
   
90.02   Controlled within city
   
90.03   Cruelty
   
90.04   Killing and injuring
   
90.05   Enclosures
   
90.06   Fowl running at large
Dogs and Cats
   
90.20   License
   
90.21   Annual license tag
   
90.22   Wrongful licensing
   
90.23   Owner defined
   
90.24   Proclamation
   
90.25   Uncollared
   
90.26   Impounding; animal shelter
   
90.27   Capture impossible
   
90.28   Vicious
   
90.29   Interference with police
   
90.30   Killing and poisoning
   
90.31   Barking and offensive
   
90.32   Fighting
   
90.33   Liability of owner
   
90.34   Removal of tags
   
90.35   Rabies suspected
   
90.36   Dangerous dog
   
90.37   Kennel license
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or
any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse,
mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to run at large on any of the
public ways and public property, or upon the property of another or to be
tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or
pass into any public way.
(Neb. RS 17-547) (Prior Code, § 6-201) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 CONTROLLED WITHIN CITY.
   No person, whether as owner, bailee, keeper, or custodian, shall keep or
maintain any horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, rabbit, or any other animal
within 75 feet of any part of any building used by another as a residence or
place of dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly or unnecessarily beat, overwork, or insufficiently
shelter or feed any animal within the city.
(Neb. RS 28-1008 to 28-1016) (Prior Code, § 6-203) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the said animal.
(Neb. RS 28-1009) (Prior Code, § 6-204) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowls, not specifically barred within the corporate
limits, shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a
menace or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
§ 90.06 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys,
geese, or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits, except
in enclosed places on private property.
(Neb. RS 17-547) (Prior Code, § 6-206) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.20 LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of six months,
or a cat over the age of three months, within the city shall, within 30 days
after acquisition of said dog or cat, or within 30 days of establishing
residence within the city while in possession of such dog and/cat, acquire a
license for each such dog or cat and renew said license annually by or before
May 1 of each year. The said tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10; or
harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to payment of the dog or cat
tax levied herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within ten days
thereafter. Dog and cat licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the
payment of a license fee of $5 for each male and spayed female, and $10 for
each unsprayed female. In the event that a license is not acquired by the
required date, a late fee in the amount of $25 shall be charged in addition to
the above license fee. Said license shall not be transferable and no refund
will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed
dog or cat. The owner shall state at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog and/or cat owned and kept by him or
her. A certificate that the dog or cat has had a rabies shot, effective for the
year of the license, shall be presented when the license is applied for and no
license or tag shall be issued until the certificate is shown.
(Prior Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 583, passed 5-10-1996; Ord. 644, passed 8-4-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, 71-4412 
§ 90.21 ANNUAL LICENSE TAG.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall issue to the owner
of a dog or cat a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog or cat so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs and cats so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor
the said dog or cat until April 30 following such licensing. In the event that
a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or
tag was issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the City Clerk shall
issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license
tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the
governing body for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All license fees and
collections shall be immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the
duty of the City Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design that are different in
appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-102) (Ord. 583, passed 5-10-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 
§ 90.22 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog or cat to wear any license, metallic tag or other city
identification than that issued by the City Clerk for dogs and cats, nor shall
the owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed
female with a license prescribed for a male or spayed female.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 583, passed 5-10-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603 
§ 90.23 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog or cat to be for ten days or
more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog or cat, and shall be deemed
to be liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 6-104) (Ord. 583, passed 5-10-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 54-606, 71-4401
§ 90.24 PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the governing body whenever, in its opinion, the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation or until such damage is passed.
The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage,
or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuing the
proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping, or harboring
any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-105)
§ 90.25 UNCOLLARED.
   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
city without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public nuisance.
Uncollared dogs found running at large shall be impounded in the dog shelter by
the police.
(Neb. RS 54-605) (Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDING; ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog and/or cat to allow such
dog and/or cat to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the
city. It shall be the duty of the police to cause any dog or cat found to be
running at large within the city to be taken up and impounded. RUNNING AT LARGE
shall mean any dog or cat found off the premises of the owner and not under
control of the owner or a responsible person either by leash, cord, chain, wire
rope, cage, or other suitable means of physical restraint. The city shall
provide an animal shelter wherein all animals of the dog and cat kind shall be
required to be impounded under the provisions of this subchapter. The Chief of
Police shall establish and maintain said shelter in some convenient location.
He or she shall capture and secure all dogs and cats running at large contrary
to the provisions of these articles and shall remove such dogs and cats in a
humane manner to the animal shelter.
   (B)   Any dog or cat so impounded shall be delivered to the owner upon his
or her paying to the City Clerk the dog and/or cat tax due, should it be
unpaid, and providing said dog and/or cat with a collar or harness and the
plate or tag as herein provided, should said dog or cat be without one, and
paying a poundage fee of $5 per day. All poundage fees shall inure to and be
paid into the General Fund within 30 days after their receipt.
   (C)   When any dog or cat shall be found running at large and it has not
been claimed by its owner within three days, if licensed or if unlicensed, the
police may dispose of or destroy said dog or cat after posting notice of such
intent for 24 hours.
   (D)   The city may, if it deems it necessary and proper, enter into an
agreement with an animal control professional whereby the duty and authority to
capture and impound dogs and cats found running at large, herein granted to the
Chief of Police, would be delegated to such animal control professional. Such
an agreement must be approved by the Mayor and City Council. If such an
agreement is entered into, the same requirements for the return of an impounded
dog or cat shall apply except for the provision relating to poundage fees. The
poundage fees to be paid by the owner of an impounded dog or cat shall be a fee
in an amount equal to that normally charged in the ordinary course of business
by the animal control professional with whom the city has contracted. Said
poundage fee shall not be paid into the General Fund but shall be paid to said
animal control professional. Under such an agreement, any captured dogs and
cats shall be impounded at the facilities of the animal control professional
with whom the city contracts. The provisions outlined herein for the
destruction of impounded dogs and cats shall apply in the event that the city
enters into an agreement with an animal control professional for the capture
and impoundment of dogs and cats found running at large within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 583, passed 5-10-1996) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The police shall have the authority to kill any animals showing vicious
tendencies or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible because
of the danger involved.
(Neb. RS 54-604) (Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 90.28 VICIOUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog of a
dangerous or ferocious disposition that habitually snaps or manifests a
disposition to bite without the said dog being securely held by a chain not
over six feet long. If any vicious or dangerous dog is otherwise held,
confined, or allowed to run at large, the police shall have the authority to
put the dog to death.
(Prior Code, § 6-109) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
police officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by the
provisions of this subchapter, or to break open or in any manner, directly or
indirectly, aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the animal shelter,
any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or conveying of
dogs to the shelter.
(Neb. RS 28-904) (Prior Code, § 6-110) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog or in any manner to injure, maim, or destroy, or in
any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog; provided, that this section shall not apply to municipal
police officers acting within their power and duty.
(Prior Code, § 6-111) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-112) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept, or harbored
by him or her or under his or her charge or control to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon
conviction, may be made to be liable to the person so injured in an amount
equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602) (Prior Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog not vaccinated
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, which has bitten any
person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and impounded under
the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten days.
If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog has no clinical signs of rabies
at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to the owner or, in the case
of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
herein. If the owner of the said dog has proof of vaccination, it shall be
confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a period of at least
ten days, at which time the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
If no signs of rabies are observed, the dog may be released from confinement.
(LB 61, § 4) (Prior Code, § 6-116)
§ 90.36 DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of animal control
authority, the local police, or a licensed veterinarian:
         (a)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public
or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog
was off the owner’s property;
         (c)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an animal control authority, and the owner has received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals; or
         (d)   1.   Is one of the following breeds of dogs, or any mix of the
following breeds of dogs, or any dog displaying the majority of the physical
traits or characteristics which substantially conform to the standards
established by the American Kennel Club or United Kennel Club, or has been
determined by a licensed veterinarian to have any genetics, of any one or more
of the following breeds:
               a.   American Pit Bull Terrier;
               b   American Staffordshire Terrier; or
               c.   Staffordshire Bull Terrier.
            2.   However, any of the above breeds of dog shall be permitted and
shall not be defined as a dangerous dog if said dog is a service dog as defined
by federal law and has been certified as such by an individual or organization
qualified to do so under federal law. The foregoing notwithstanding, any
certified service dog of the above named breeds shall be defined as a dangerous
dog if it exhibits any of the behavior set forth above.
   (B)   Prohibition. Any dog defined as a DANGEROUS DOG using the definition
contained in division (A) above shall be prohibited within the city limits, and
it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit a dangerous
dog to be within the city limits.
   (C)   Failure to comply; impoundment. The city is authorized to immediately
impound any dog by an animal control officer or police officer if the owner is
in violation of this section. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable
costs incurred by the city, and its animal control officer or police officers,
for the care, boarding, and impoundment of the dog. Upon such impoundment, the
city shall provide written notice to the owner. The owner shall have seven days
from the date of said notice to file a written petition with the City Clerk for
a hearing concerning the impoundment and alleged failure to comply with this
chapter. Said hearing will be held before the City Council, at any regular or
special meeting within 14 days from the filing of the petition by the owner.
The owner shall bear the burden of proof. Any facts that the owner wishes to
consider shall be submitted under oath or affirmation, either in writing or
orally at the hearing. The City Council shall make a final determination
whether there has been such violation. If the impoundment is found to be proper
and in accordance with this section by the City Council, or the owner does not
file a written petition with the city in the requisite time, the dog impounded
shall be humanely destroyed, unless the owner produces evidence that the dog
will be permanently removed from the city. If the owner is not found in
violation of this section, the dog shall be released to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-117) (Ord. 665, passed 5-7-2014; Ord. 668, passed 3-4-2015)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.37 KENNEL LICENSE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL DOG KENNEL. The ownership, possession, keeping, or harboring
of one or more dogs, over the age of six months, for the purposes of boarding,
breeding, feeding, buying, or selling, or raising of such animals, or any of
said purposes, or permitting four or more dogs over the age of six months, to
be or to remain upon his or her premises.
      DOG. Include both male and female.
      DOMESTIC DOG KENNEL. The ownership, keeping, or harboring of three dogs,
over age of six months, not used for boarding, breeding, buying, selling, or
raising, other than as domesticated pets in a residential district. All of said
dogs shall be kept confined to the residence of the premises.
      OWNER. Person or persons, firms, associations, or corporations owning,
possessing, keeping, or harboring a dog or permitting same to be or to remain
on or about his or her premises.
   (B)   Kennel area defined. The area comprising any kennel proposed to be
licensed shall be definite and certain, and the same shall be neither enlarged,
nor the location thereof changed, without first obtaining the consent of the
City Council. No licensee in the feeding of said dogs shall openly expose dead
animal flesh, garbage, or refuse, or slaughter or kill any animal within said
kennel for the purpose of permitting the dogs to feed upon the same, and
provided further, it shall be the duty of the licensee of any kennel to keep
the same in a clean state and free from any matter creating offensive odors.
   (C)   Licensing required. Any person or persons maintaining a dog kennel, as
defined above, shall be required to obtain a kennel license. A kennel license
may be issued after application is made to the City Clerk and after a public
hearing on said application is held before the City Council. At the time of
said application for kennel license, the owner shall present to the City Clerk,
upon printed forms provided for such purpose, the owner’s name and address, the
location, description, and details of said kennel on the premises, the number
of dogs to be kept in said kennel, a certificate, or other information showing
compliance with all laws and regulations pertaining to dog kennels from the
Board of Hearth and the Nebraska Humane Society, and a non-refundable
application fee, as established in this section. No kennel shall be maintained
nor shall a license be issued to a kennel that creates a nuisance in the
immediate neighborhood through noise, odor, or unsanitary conditions. Upon the
written complaint of two or more affected persons from different households,
filed within any 30-day period with the Police Department or City Clerk, that
any kennel has excessive noise, odor, or ordinance violation, or upon the
issuance of three citations for ordinance violations pertaining to dogs within
a six-month period, said complaint or violation may result in loss of the
holder’s license or impoundment or penalty as otherwise provided by this code.
   (D)   Licensing fee and deadlines. The kennel license application fee shall
be $100. A fee of $300 per year shall be charged for a commercial dog kennel
license; a fee of $200 per year shall be charged for a domestic dog kennel
license for unneutered or unspayed dogs; and a fee of $100 per year shall be
charged for domestic dog kennel license with all dogs either spayed or
neutered. The person maintaining such kennel shall license the same by May 1 of
each year. The license shall be delinquent from and after May 10. Kennel
licenses delinquent on or after June 1 shall be required to submit a new
application with the required application fee and paper work for resubmission
and approval by the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (E)   License revocation. A kennel license so issued may be revoked after a
hearing before the City Council if said kennel is not operating in accordance
with applicable city laws. No kennel shall be maintained in a manner which
constitutes a nuisance or a disturbance of the peace, or in a manner which
creates offensive odors to neighbors. Upon receipt of a complaint as required
by this section, the City Council shall set a hearing date to determine whether
said license shall be revoked.
(Ord. 629, passed 9-5-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §
90.36 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for such violation
shall be in any amount not to exceed $500 in the discretion of the court and
every 24-hour period of any violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 668, passed 3-4-2015)
   (C)   Any person or persons violating §
90.37 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished with a fine of not more than $500 for each offense; provided
further, it shall be unlawful for any person to continue to operate and
maintain, or attempt to continue to operate and maintain a dog kennel within
the zoning jurisdiction of the city after the revocation of his or her license
to do so, and in so doing, each and every day thereafter shall constitute a
separate offense, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 for each offense of which said person stands convicted.
(Ord. 629, passed 9-5-2007)   
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Operation and funding
   
91.02   Sexton
   
91.03   Conveyance of lots
   
91.04   Forfeiture of lots
   
91.05   Lots transfers
   
91.06   Perpetual care
   
91.07   Burial permit
   
91.08   Destruction of property
   
91.09   Vaults
   
91.10   Annual assessment fee
§ 91.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the city cemetery through the Cemetery Board. The
governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management,
maintenance, and beautification of the cemetery may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of
all real estate and personal property within the city that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Cemetery Fund and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, money, stocks,
bonds, or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the cemetery. The Cemetery Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the City Treasurer. The Cemetery Board
shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise such employees as they
may deem necessary and to pass such rules and regulations for the operation of
the cemetery as may be proper for its efficient operation.
(Neb. RS 12-301 through 12-403) (Prior Code, § 3-801)
§ 91.02 SEXTON.
   The Cemetery Board shall have the authority to appoint a sexton who shall
perform such duties and make such reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct.
It shall be the duty of the sexton, upon receiving a burial permit, to locate
and direct the party named in the permit to the lot mentioned therein, and to
dig and excavate, or cause the same to be dug or excavated, in compliance with
the rules and regulations of the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
§ 91.03 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   The Cemetery Board may convey cemetery lots by certificate signed by the
President of the Cemetery Board and countersigned by the Secretary of the Board
specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot
described therein by number for the purpose of interment. The said certificate
shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor, his or her heirs, and
assigns. The certificate shall then be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-941) (Prior Code, § 3-803)
§ 91.04 FORFEITURE OF LOTS.
   If, for three consecutive years, all charges and liens are not paid by the
holders of the lot certificates, the said certificates shall be declared
forfeited and subject to resale. All certificates sold shall contain a
forfeiture clause to the effect that if no interment is made on the said lot
and all liens paid, the certificate and the rights under the same may, at the
option of the Cemetery Board, be declared null and void and the lot shall be
subject to resale.
(Neb. RS 17-938) (Prior Code, § 3-804)
§ 91.05 LOTS TRANSFERS.
   Any person who wishes to transfer a certificate may do so by surrendering
the original certificate to the secretary of the Cemetery Board who shall issue
a new certificate upon the receipt of a recording fee set by the Cemetery
Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-805)
§ 91.06 PERPETUAL CARE.
   The City Treasurer shall allocate and set apart a percentage of the entire
amount paid for lots or burial spaces if the said lots or burial spaces are to
be endowed with perpetual care. The fund shall be permanent in nature and as it
accumulates, shall be invested in such interest-bearing securities as are
authorized by state law. The income earned thereon shall be used solely for the
purposes of perpetual care for the cemetery lots. Any lot owner who shall not
have, prior to the purchase of his or her lot, endowed his or her holdings with
perpetual care, may do so by paying to the secretary of the Cemetery Board such
sum of money as the Board may in each case fix and determine. Thereafter, the
owner shall not be liable for the payment of an annual maintenance assessment.
(Prior Code, § 3-806)
§ 91.07 BURIAL PERMIT.
   All persons desiring to bury a deceased person shall first be required to
file a completed death certificate with the County Registrar before any body
may be buried in the city cemetery. If it is impossible to complete the
certificate of death within the legal period of time prescribed by state law,
the funeral director shall notify the County Registrar and obtain his or her
written approval before the deceased person may be buried in the city cemetery.
The burial permit so issued by the County Registrar shall then be filed with
the secretary of the Cemetery Board. It shall be unlawful for the sexton or
other person to allow the interment of a body without first receiving such
permit. The burial permit shall then be countersigned and dated by the sexton.
The interment of any body shall be performed under the direct supervision of a
licensed funeral director. The applicant shall also file with the burial permit
an application containing the name, age, sex, race, and cause of death of the
deceased person for the records of the Cemetery Board. Upon completion of the
requirements herein, the secretary of the Cemetery Board shall then issue a
city burial permit which shall entitle the applicant to bury a deceased person
in the city cemetery. In the event that the removal of the body of any deceased
person is required, the secretary shall issue no permit until the applicant
shall have first complied with the laws of the state with respect to such
disinterment.
(Neb. RS 71-605) (Prior Code, § 3-807) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure, or remove
any tomb, monument, or gravestone placed in the cemetery or any fence, railing,
or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or who shall
willfully destroy, cut, break, or injure any tree, shrub, or plant shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-519) (Prior Code, § 3-808) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 VAULTS.
   (A)   There shall be no burials in the city public cemetery, unless the
casket shall be placed in, or covered by, a concrete or steel box, vault, or
grave liner so designed and constructed, as provided support for the overlying
and adjacent earth or ground, including any weight of trucks and equipment that
can reasonably be expected, and any monuments or markers erected or to be
erected above or adjacent to such grave, such design and construction to be
such as to provide no substantial deterioration in such box, vault, or grave
liner and its support capabilities in a 50-year period.
   (B)   Any person, mortician, undertaker, or other person arranging for or
requesting burial to buy or to arrange for the burial of any casket or body in
said cemetery without arranging for the placement of a proper box, vault, or
grave liner as herein provided, shall be guilty of a Class V misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-809) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 ANNUAL ASSESSMENT FEE.
   (A)   There shall be imposed an annual assessment upon every city cemetery
lot which has been sold and unused with no interment for a period of 75 years.
   (B)   The annual assessment fee hereby established shall be the sum of $5
each year until the assessment has been paid.
(Ord. 715, passed 5-5-2021)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fires
   
92.01   Preservation of property
   
92.02   Disorderly spectator
   
92.03   Equipment
   
92.04   Interference
   
92.05   Obstruction
   
92.06   Assistance
   
92.07   Driving over hose
   
92.08   False alarm
   
92.09   Open burning restrictions
Fire Prevention
   
92.25   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.26   Fire limits defined
   
92.27   Fire limits materials
   
92.28   Ironclads; exceptions
   
92.29   Removal required
Poisonous and Flammable Gases
   
92.40   Poisonous and flammable gases
Explosives
   
92.55   Storage registration
   
92.56   Blasting permits
   
92.57   Transportation
FIRES
§ 92.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or any officer in charge of the Fire Department shall
have the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may direct the city firefighters to remove any
building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up or cause to be
blown up with explosives, any building or structure during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist, or refuse to
obey the Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the Fire Chief and the members
of the Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle, or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their
duty.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
turn on without authorization of the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire
Department, or have or place any material within 15 feet of the said hydrant.
Any vehicle or material founds as an obstruction may be immediately removed by
the Fire Chief of any member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost, and
expense of the owner or claimant.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over an unprotected hose of the
Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184) (Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No open burning or open fires shall be allowed or permitted within the
corporate limits of the city and shall include all burning, with the exception
of controlled burning within an enclosed building in structures commonly
referred to as fireplaces or stoves.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department may grant individual
or general permits to allow open burning for a specific date or dates; said
permits shall be issued by him or her in his or her sole discretion.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.25 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated Fire
Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 92.26 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the city shall be and constitute the
fire limits: Blocks 6, 7, 10, and 11, Original Town; Lots 1, 2, 3, and 4, Block
12; Lots 15, 16, 17, and 18, Block 5, all in the Original Town of Randolph,
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (Prior Code, § 7-203)
§ 92.27 FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
   Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered,
moved, or enlarged, unless such structure will be enclosed with walls
constructed wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, metal,
or other such non-combustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the
said structure will be reasonably fireproof.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (Prior Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.28 IRONCLADS; EXCEPTIONS.
   All buildings, sheds, or structures known as ironclads, that is, buildings,
sheds, or structures constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin, or
constructed of sheet iron or tin attached to a framework or posts or any
skeleton support constructed of wood or other combustible material, shall be
considered and deemed for all purposes within every section of this subchapter
to be constructed of combustible materials, and the erection of such buildings,
sheds, or structures is hereby prohibited; provided, coal sheds, warehouses,
and buildings of limited-dimensions, under permit in writing from the governing
body, may be built and constructed with metallic covering on wooden frames not
closer than 20 feet to any building in said fire limits upon written
application therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.29 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure which
stands within the fire limits is damaged to the extent of 50% or more of its
value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not be repaired or rebuilt but
shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from the date of such fire or
other casualty.
(Prior Code, § 7-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES
§ 92.40 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the city for
any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or liquefied
petroleum gas in excess of 120 gallons, or add to, enlarge, or replace any
facility used for the storage of such gases, must first get permission from the
governing body. The governing body shall require the name of the gas, the place
of storage, and the amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the
governing body shall prescribe such rules, regulations, and precautionary
actions as they may deem necessary. Any such present use that is discontinued
for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-301) (Ord. 694, passed 12-5-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 28-1229
EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.55STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation storing or keeping for any period of
time dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other high explosives within the
city shall register such information with the City Clerk within five days after
such explosives are brought into the city. The City Clerk shall provide such
information to the Fire Chief and to the governing body. Transfer of explosives
to another individual within the city shall require the individual receiving
the explosives to register the transfer and the new location of the explosives
with the City Clerk. Also, moving explosives to a new location by the owner
shall require registration of that fact to the City Clerk.
   (B)   All high explosives, including dynamite, gunpowder, and nitroglycerine
shall be stored in a proper receptacle which shall be closed at all times,
except when actually in use. Such cement, metal, or stone receptacle shall not
be located in any room where there is a flame or flammable materials. The area
surrounding storage facilities shall be kept clear of rubbish, brush, dry
grass, or trees for not less than 25 feet in all directions. Any other
combustible material shall be kept a distance of not less than 50 feet from
outdoor storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.56 BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the city must secure
a permit from the governing body and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction and under their supervision, and in no case
shall any person perform blasting operations, unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the
State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.57 TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the city shall first
acquire a permit from the city police and shall take such precautions and use
such route as he or she may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be construed to
apply to the city police or any of the Armed Services of the United States. No
vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled stop for longer than
five minutes within the city and, in the event of mechanical failure, immediate
notice of such breakdown shall be given the Police Chief who shall then
prescribe such precautions as may be necessary to protect the residents of the
city and a reasonable time for removal of the vehicle from the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-403) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Health regulations
   
93.02   Enforcement official
   
93.03   County Board of Health
   
93.04   State rules
Nuisances
   
93.15   Generally defined
   
93.16   Specifically defined
   
93.17   Abatement procedure
   
93.18   Jurisdiction
   
93.19   Abatement of nuisance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as the
quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
§ 93.04 STATE RULES.
   The Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health, Department of Health of
the State of Nebraska, are hereby incorporated by reference when, the same are
applicable to the city in their present form and as they may hereafter be
amended. Three copies of the said pamphlet are filed at the office of the City
Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902) (Prior Code, § 4-103)
NUISANCES
§ 93.15 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition, or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street, or
highway in the city;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Neb. RS 17-101, 18-1720) (Prior Code, § 4-301)
§ 93.16 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any
of the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances and shall be unlawful:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places or which are
foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barn yards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Health Officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrifying waste in a place and manner
approved by the Health Officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, small pieces of scrap iron, wire metal
articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery, broken glass,
broken plaster, and all trash;
   (G)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure, or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished;
   (H)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (I)   Stock yards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens, or
any other place, building, or enclosure in which animal or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed when said places in which said animals are confined or said premises
on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and kept in such a
manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
   (J)   Any property within the city upon which litter has been thrown,
deposited, or accumulated. It shall be the duty of every owner, agent,
occupant, or person in possession of any lot or parcel of land within the city
to keep the same free from litter. For purposes of this section, litter
includes but is not limited to trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags,
and ashes; wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble; scrap metal
or scrap rubber; offal and dead animals; and any machine or machines, vehicle
or vehicles, or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost their identity,
character, utility, or serviceability, as such through deterioration,
dismantling, or the ravages of time, or are inoperative or unable to perform
their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as
waste, wreckage, or junk.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 621, passed 6-7-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner or
owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service
or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five days
after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done. If the owner or occupant
does request a hearing, the governing body shall cause a hearing date to be
filed and notice thereof to be served upon the owner, or owner’s duly
authorized agent, or the occupant. Such notice of hearing shall be by personal
service or by certified mail and require such party or parties to appear before
the governing body, or its designated hearing officer, to show cause why such
condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. A return of
service shall be required and such notice shall not be given less than five
days prior to the hearing. The governing body shall hear all objections made by
interested parties and hear all evidence concerning the condition of the
property. If, after consideration of all of the evidence, the governing body
shall find that the said condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the said public
nuisance at once; provided, the party or parties may appeal such decision to
the appropriate court for adjudication during which proceedings the decision of
the governing body shall be stayed. Should the owner or occupant refuse or
neglect to promptly comply with the order of the governing body, the governing
body shall proceed to cause the abatement of the described public nuisance.
Upon completion of the work by the municipality, the city shall transmit to the
governing body which is authorized to levy the cost as a special assessment
against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate
and shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments. In the
alternative, the governing body may bill the landowner and recover in a civil
action the costs and expenses of such work upon the lot or piece of ground.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 621, passed 6-7-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 16-230, 17-101, 18-1720
§ 93.18 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the city are directed to enforce this code
against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of Police, and
court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this subchapter shall
include all territory adjacent to the limits of the city within one mile
thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (Prior Code, § 4-304)
§ 93.19 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the city shall keep such real estate free of
nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are otherwise
provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the City Council and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
   (D)   If within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the City Council, the Council shall fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Council to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more
than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the
hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Council shall hear all objections made
by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of
Health or designated official. If after consideration of all the evidence, the
City Council finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution,
order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the
owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the Council may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
Cross-reference:
   Authority to obtain injunction against nuisance, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
 
CHAPTER 94: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks
   
94.01   Injury to property
   
94.02   Park defined
   
94.03   Hours of public use
   
94.04   Overnight camping
   
94.05   Designated parking and driving areas
Municipal Swimming Pool
   
94.20   Operation and funding
   
94.21   Admission charge
   
94.22   Rentals
   
94.23   Rules and regulations
Library
   
94.35   Funding
   
94.36   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
94.37   Grounds and building
   
94.38   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
94.39   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
94.40   Cost of use
   
94.41   Discrimination prohibited
   
94.42   Annual report
   
94.43   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
94.44   Donations
   
94.45   Improper book removal
Auditorium
   
94.60   Ownership
   
94.61   Rentals
PARKS
§ 94.01 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 94.02 PARK DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term MUNICIPAL PARK shall mean
Veterans Memorial Park and the North Highway Park.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)
§ 94.03 HOURS OF PUBLIC USE.
   The parks of the city shall be opened daily to the public during the hours
of 5:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. of any one day and from November 15 to March 15 of
each year said parks shall be closed permanently to motorized vehicles, and it
shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than city personnel
conducting city business thereon, to occupy or be present in the city parks of
the city during any hours in which the city parks are not open to the public;
provided, however, the Mayor or chairperson of the Park Board may extend by
permit the hours for the use of the city park facilities to groups,
associations, or organizations desiring to use the city park facilities for a
particular purpose; provided, any person engaged in authorized sport activities
using playing fields may continue after closing until completed at which time
said persons shall vacate the premises immediately.
(Prior Code, § 3-503) (Ord. 575, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 OVERNIGHT CAMPING.
   Overnight camping shall be allowed in North Highway Park located on U.S.
Highway No. 20, subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the Park Board.
Any individuals using said park for overnight camping under the rules and
regulations adopted by the Park Board shall be exempt in the requirement of §
94.03 of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-505)   
§ 94.05 DESIGNATED PARKING AND DRIVING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicles to drive on any park property of
the city with the exception of designated parking areas and driving areas as
established by the Park Board. This provision shall not apply to duly
authorized maintenance vehicles of the city or as authorized by the Park Board.
It shall be the duty of the Park Board to post areas upon which motor vehicles
are not allowed.
(Prior Code, § 3-506) Penalty, see §
10.99
MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
§ 94.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The city owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The governing body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the swimming pool, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the city that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund and shall
include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable
income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for the
purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-601) (Ord. 746, passed 12-13-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952
§ 94.21 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   Admission charges shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk and shall
also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool for public
inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a reasonable
manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin in the
classification of persons for admission charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-602) (Ord. 746, passed 12-13-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 94.22 RENTALS.
   Fees and other costs shall be on file at the office of the City Clerk and
posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 3-603) (Ord. 746, passed 12-13-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-949
§ 94.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Flotation devices, including, but not limited to, inner tubes, rafts,
arm floats, and other recreational devices may be used in all areas of the
swimming pool except in the diving area. Swimmers shall only be permitted to
use flotation devices in areas of the pool where he or she is able to swim or
to stand on the bottom of the pool with their heads above the surface of the
water. Flotation devices may be banned at such times, and for such periods, as
the swimming pool manager deems safe and appropriate.
   (B)   Coast Guard approved life jackets may be used by non-swimmers in the
pool, except the diving area, under the close supervision of an adult swimmer
and after prior approval of the pool management. Life jackets are not allowed
in the diving area of the pool.
   (C)   In accordance with state regulations, no diapers may be worn in any
pool area, except diapers that are specially designed for swimming pool use to
prevent contamination of the pool water. Disposable diapers are prohibited in
any pool area.
   (D)   Any person who intentionally fails to follow instructions from any
pool staff member shall be subject to immediate removal from the pool and can
be ejected from the pool premises by pool management.
   (E)   Any person found using obscene language or making obscene gestures
shall be subject to immediate expulsion from the pool premises. Any person so
removed shall not be eligible for admission to the pool area until he or she is
approved for admission by pool management.
   (F)   Any person found to cause any fighting or physical confrontation or
threat of violence shall be subject to immediate expulsion from the pool by
pool management. Any person so removed shall not be eligible for admission to
the pool area until he or she is approved for admission by pool management.
   (G)   Any person found to be responsible for vandalism to pool property
shall be banned from admission to the pool. A report of any vandalism occurring
to the pool shall be made with the appropriate authorities for prosecution and
restitution.
(Prior Code, 3-604) (Ord. 610, passed 5-1-2001; Ord. 649, passed 6-13-2011)
LIBRARY
§ 94.35 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the library fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 94.36 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the library fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 94.37 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 94.38 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library, which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published
or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a remonstrance against
the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting at the
last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the property
shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing
the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the
signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 94.39 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The president of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the library fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the president on
any such release shall be authenticated by the secretary of the Board. The
president and secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 94.40 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established for the
government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 94.41 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 94.42 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the president and secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 94.43 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the city to
the credit of the library fund. Attorney’s fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the treasury of the city and credited to the budget
of the City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 94.44 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 94.45 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
AUDITORIUM
§ 94.60 OWNERSHIP.
   The city owns and manages the municipal auditorium through the City Clerk.
The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
maintenance, and improvements on the municipal auditorium may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the city that is
subject to taxation.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)
§ 94.61 RENTALS.
   (A)   The City Clerk may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the auditorium, make a
reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of the
auditorium. The City Clerk shall prescribe rules and regulations for such
rentals subject to the review of the governing body. Rental rates shall be set
by ordinance of the governing body and shall be on file at the office of the
City Clerk. Said rates may be structured for classes of persons and
organizations in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color,
or national origin in the classification of persons and organizations for
rental purposes.
(Neb. RS 17-953) (Prior Code, § 3-1002)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall collect rent for the following (see Master Fee
Schedule):
      (1)   Main hall meeting;
      (2)   Reception with kitchen;
      (3)   Reception and dance;
      (4)   Small room;
      (5)   Dishes; and
      (6)   Deposit.
(Prior Code, § 3-1003)
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Abatement of nuisance
Municipal Property
   
95.015   Definition
   
95.016   Maintenance and control
   
95.017   Obstructions
   
95.018   Permitted obstructions
   
95.019   Weeds
   
95.020   Personal property on sidewalk space in business district
Sidewalks
   
95.035   Kept clean
   
95.036   Maintenance
   
95.037   Repair
   
95.038   Construction by owner
   
95.039   Maintenance by owner
   
95.040   Waste or debris on sidewalks
Streets
   
95.055   Names and numbers
   
95.056   Widening or opening
   
95.057   Excavation
   
95.058   Driving stakes
   
95.059   Mixing concrete
   
95.060   Harmful liquids
   
95.061   Eave and gutter spouts
   
95.062   Pipe lines and wires
   
95.063   Construction assessments
Curb and Gutter
   
95.075   Cutting curb
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city may proceed
by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided by law.
Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as
a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 8-502)
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 95.015 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(Prior Code, § 8-101)
§ 95.016 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the city and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from
nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (Prior Code, § 8-102)
§ 95.017 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line or upon public ground and
interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements shall be
deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. Said trees and shrubs and their
roots may be removed by the city at the expense of the owner of the property
upon which the tree is located should the owner fail or neglect after notice to
do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
obstruct or encumber by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise any
of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (Prior Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.018 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along any
street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Street Commissioner to do so; provided, no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space and more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which said building
is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be
granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be
maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall be
protected and lighted in the manner required by the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-104)
§ 95.019 WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Street Commissioner or his or her duly
authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate
limits for growing weeds during the growing season and, if rank and noxious
weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds. In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the
city is a non-resident of the city or cannot be found therein, the notice may
be given to any person having the care, custody, or control of such lot or
parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within the city to
whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or
his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises and then to cut
or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report the cost
thereof in writing to the governing body. The cost shall then be audited and
paid by the city and the amount thereon shall be assessed against the lot or
parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall be collected as are other
taxes of the city or may be recovered by civil suit brought by the city against
the owner of the parcel of land. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall, before
levying any special assessment against the property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed in the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-105)
§ 95.020 PERSONAL PROPERTY ON SIDEWALK SPACE IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, or company to place
any personal property, of any nature whatsoever, upon the sidewalk space within
the business district of the city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the business district shall be
defined as Broadway Street running from Cedar Street to Pierce Street and Main
Street running from Hughson Street to Wayne Street. The foregoing shall not,
however, apply to the following:
      (1)   The placement on the sidewalk space of vending machines in a manner
which does not reasonably hinder foot traffic;
      (2)   The placement on the sidewalk space of items for seasonable or
special sale in a manner which does not reasonably hinder foot traffic,
provided that all such items must be removed from the sidewalk at the close of
business or 9:00 p.m., Central Time, whichever is earlier;
      (3)   The placement on the sidewalk space of seat benches, decorative
planters or trash receptacles in a manner which does not reasonably obstruct or
hinder foot traffic; or
      (4)   The placement on the sidewalk space of items being loaded or
unloaded for a period of time reasonably necessary to complete such loading or
unloading which period of time shall not exceed two business hours.
(Ord. 604, passed 1-4-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 95.035 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon said sidewalks. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five hours afer the cessation of
a storm unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the
night, in which case the sidewalks shall be cleaned before 10:00 a.m. the
following day. In said business district, defined as Main Street between
Hughson Street and Wayne Street, and Broadway Street between Nebraska Street
and Douglas Street, removal of snow, sleet, ice, mud and other substance may be
accomplished by either manually removing such substance using a shovel, by a
walk behind or ride snow blower, use of skid loader, and UTV with snow removal
equipment attached. Any other means of mechanical removal, including the use of
tractors with loaders is prohibited within the business district. Any damages
caused during the clearing of snow, sleet, ice, mud, and any other substance is
the responsibility and at cost of property owner to repair/replace. Sidewalks
within the residential areas of the municipality shall be cleaned within 24
hours after the cessation of the storm. In case such abutting property owner
refuses or neglects after 24 hours, to remove all encroachments, including
snow, sleet, ice, mud or other substances from such sidewalks as provided in
this section, the city may cause such encroachments to be removed and the costs
of removal paid out of the Street Fund. The Council shall assess the cost of
the notice and removal of the encroachment against such abutting property. Such
special assessment shall be known as the special sidewalk assessment and
together with the costs of notice shall be levied and collected as a special
tax in addition to the general revenue tax and shall be subject to the same
penalties and draw interest from the date of the assessment. Upon payment of
the assessment, the same shall be credited to the Street Fund.
(Prior Code, § 8-201) (Ord. 654, passed 10-5-2011; Ord. 737, passed 1-11-2023)
Penalty, see §  
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-557, 17-557.01
§ 95.036 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall, at all times, keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to
said lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon.
In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands abutting on
any street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any
sidewalk in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands within the time and
in the manner as directed and required herein, after having received due notice
to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason
of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the governing body
shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and
assess the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner
is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the city shall,
before levying any special assessment against the property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-resident property
owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax
rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (Prior Code, § 8-202)
§ 95.037 REPAIR.
    The Street Commissioner may require sidewalks of the city to be repaired in
accordance with the sidewalk construction specifications set forth in §
95.039(D). Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice to
said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs
shall be completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice in accordance
with §
95.039(D). No special assessment shall be levied against the property unless
said owner shall neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and, in
the event that such owner fails to repair, the city shall cause the repairs to
be made and assess the property owner the expense of such repairs. In the event
the property owner is a non-resident of Cedar or Pierce County in which the
property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment against
that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by
means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
(Prior Code, § 8-203) (Ord. 717, passed 9-1-2021)
§ 95.038 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
    Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any sidewalk,
shall do so only as herein provided and in accordance with the sidewalk
construction specifications set forth in §
95.039(D). It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk
without first having obtained a permit. Said owner shall make application in
writing for a permit and file such application in the office of the City Clerk.
The permit shall give a description of the lot or piece of land along which the
sidewalk is to be constructed. The Street Commissioner shall issue the desired
permit unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied;
provided, if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the
regularly prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the Street Commissioner
shall submit the application to the governing body who shall determine whether
the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, or cause to be constructed, said sidewalk at any other location,
grade, or elevation than so designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be
built and constructed on the established grade or elevation and, if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the Street
Commissioner. All sidewalks shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with §
95.039(D). Said sidewalk construction shall be inspected by the Street
Commissioner and if at any time the Street Commissioner finds that work is
proceeding in violation of the permit issued for such construction or in
violation of any ordinances, rules, or regulations of the city, he or she may
stop the work and said construction shall not again proceed until the builder
makes any needed corrections to comply with said requirements.
(Prior Code, § 8-204) (Ord. 717, passed 9-1-2021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.039 MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, any person or owner of property within the
city limits, upon which a sidewalk exists shall be prohibited from removing
said sidewalk and shall maintain and keep such sidewalk in good repair.
   (B)   Any sidewalk not adequately maintained may be repaired or replaced as
necessary, by the city and the cost thereof charged to the property owner. If
payment is not made to the city within 30 days of billing, such cost shall be a
special assessment upon the property.
   (C)   In the event that any property owner seeks to remove all or any part
of a sidewalk, such owner may make application to the City Council for
permission to do so. For good cause shown to the City Council, permission to
remove a sidewalk may be granted. However, no permission to remove a sidewalk
will be granted with respect to any sidewalk which forms part of a sidewalk
that is contiguous for one full side of the city block upon which said sidewalk
is located.
   (D)   All new and repaired sidewalks shall be required to conform with the
following construction specifications:
      (1)   Width shall be 48 inches wide;
      (2)   Reinforcement shall be at least 3-parallel #4 rebar;
      (3)   Concrete must be a minimum of 4,000 psi;
      (4)   Saw joints shall be between four feet and six feet apart;
      (5)   Sidewalks must have a ¼-inch radius edge;
      (6)   Sidewalk must be at least four inches thick and at least six inches
thick on portions abutting or forming part of a driveway;
      (7)   Sidewalk must have a broom finish texture;
      (8)   Sidewalk cross slope cannot be greater than 2%;
      (9)   Sidewalks must have a curb cut at all streets one foot wider than
the sidewalk centered on the sidewalk; and
      (10)   Newly developed residential lots must include new sidewalks on the
front yards.
(Prior Code, § 8-205) (Ord. 606, passed 6-6-2000; Ord. 717, passed 9-1-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.040 WASTE OR DEBRIS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, or company to place,
maintain, or store any personal property, waste, or debris on the sidewalk
space within the city, except for licensed motor vehicles in areas provided for
parking such vehicles and temporary placement of refuse to be hauled away
within 24 hours of such placement
(Ord. 590, passed 2-3-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREETS
§ 95.055 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The governing body may, at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, upon the
erection of any new building or buildings, to assign the proper numbers to said
building or buildings, and give notice to the owner or owners and occupant or
occupants of the same. Said numbers shall be assigned in the following manner:
   All parcels of property in the city shall be assigned a location number
which location number shall be entered on a master plat, said plat to be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk at all times. Ths location number
shall be in addition to the platted lots legal description designation. Said
location numbers shall be assigned in increments of 50 feet of lot frontage or,
where lot frontage is not equal to 50 feet, as close to said 50 feet increments
as possible with the exception that, where lots are platted in 25 feet
frontages, numbers shall be assigned increments of 25 feet. However, an
exception to this 25-foot designation shall be the south half of Block 2 and
the north half of Block 3, all in the Original Town of Randolph, which shall be
assigned numbers in increments of 50-foot frontages. All location numbers shall
be assigned within block units. Blocks shall be numbered in multiples of 100
beginning with Block 100 north of Broadway Street continuing north using
“North” with each number; Block 100 south of Broadway Street continuing south
using “South” with each number; Block 100 west of Main street continuing west
using “West” with each number, and Block 100 east of Main Street continuing
east using “East” with each number. Even numbers shall be on the north and west
sides and odd numbers on the south and east sides. If any property owner
objects to the assignment of a lot location number, he or she may, by written
application filed with the City Office, appeal said assignment to the City
Council. The City Council shall hear said appeal at its first regular meeting
after said application has been on file for a period of ten days and its
decision shall be final. Each property owner may display on the premises his or
her assigned location number.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
§ 95.056 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   The governing body shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley,
or lane within the limits of the city; to create, open, and improve any new
street, alley, or lane; provided, all damages sustained shall be ascertained in
such manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-558, 17-559, 76-704 through 76-724) (Prior Code, § 8-302)
§ 95.057 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever, unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing such excavations.
(Prior Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.058 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.059 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.060 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, water, gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.061 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the city where the
said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(Prior Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.062 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon, or under the streets,
alleys, and common grounds of the city. Application for location of the above
shall be made to the governing body in writing. Approval by that body shall be
issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way for the
erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and wires
shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the governing body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and
other appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the governing body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the governing body and the City Clerk shall
notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24 hours
after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The governing body
shall designate another location as closely as possible where said poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, may be reset or placed.
All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances shall be reset,
placed, or erected in such a manner that they will not interfere with the water
system; sewerage system; poles, wires, and mains of any public utility;
adjacent buildings; or with travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall
be confined to the alleys of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-308)
§ 95.063 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefitting from the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired in the manner authorized by the
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
CURB AND GUTTER
§ 95.075 CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk, for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the governing
body therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall inform
the City Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the Street Commissioner’s duty to inspect the place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any paving, it
shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the governing body or the Street
Commissioner. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she
shall inform the Street Commissioner who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the governing body to order the Street Commissioner, under
the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer, to do the work of cutting
and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained
such permit. The governing body may consent to the work of cutting and closing
the paving to be done by the party holding such permit. Before any permit is
issued by the governing body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with
the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the governing body for all
paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot
cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the city for the
purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk in the event the work is
done by the city. In the event the city elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the
city until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Street
Commissioner. In addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant
shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and
sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the governing body in a sum set
by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 8-401) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   BUSINESS LICENSING GENERALLY
      
112.   FAIR HOUSING
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
114.   RAILROAD COMPANIES
      
115.   TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME CAMPS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
110.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
110.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
110.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
110.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
110.22   Licensee requirements
   
110.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
110.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
110.25   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
110.26   Catering licenses
   
110.27   Display of license
   
110.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
110.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
110.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
110.45   Location
   
110.46   Access to dwellings
   
110.47   Sanitary conditions
   
110.48   Hours of sale
   
110.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
110.50   Original package required
   
110.51   Minor’s presence restricted
   
110.52   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.47 shall be used.
§ 110.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision there of unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
      (2)   With a completed, signed, notarized waiver delivered to the City
Administration Building; Consumption of alcoholic beverages are hereby
authorized at Randolph public owned properties, excluding school-maintained
properties: Veterans Memorial Parks and Recreation areas, Lied Randolph Public
Library Conference Room, Randolph Public Auditorium, and Randolph Saddle Club.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, cafe, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, cafe, or club
or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a license issued
for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail
licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to
limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01) (Ord. 739, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 110.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 110.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to railroad
licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 110.23 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)    The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Neb. RS 53-134.04, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution, which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers' market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers' market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers' market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in § 14 of the Act. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 110.24 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 110.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 110.26 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
110.23 of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 110.27 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city
ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed
by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of
appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-
1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 110.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for indigent persons
or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the city, and no bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the
campus of any college, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01) Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 110.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 110.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold for consumption off
the premises on any date between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be dispensed for on
premises consumption on any date between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   On Sundays beginning at the hour of 6:00 a.m. and ending at the hour
of 1:00 a.m, on Monday beer and wine may be sold at retail. On Sundays
beginning at 12:00 p.m., all other alcoholic liquors may be sold at for
consumption off the premises until the hour of 1:00 a.m. on Monday. On Sundays
beginning at 12:00 p.m., all other alcoholic liquors may be dispensed for on
premises consumption until the hour of 1:00 a.m. on Monday.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor to
allow alcoholic liquor, including beer, in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 1:15 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 692, passed 9-5-2018) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.50 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.51 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
110.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.52 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the
retail establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months.
The records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by
any law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other
reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $10 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed enter an order of abatement
as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 10-702)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
111.01   Amounts
   
111.02   Fire insurance companies
   
111.03   Collection date
   
111.04   Certificates
   
111.05   Failure to pay
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 111.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses.
Alcoholic beverages
Alcoholic beverages
   Restaurants, beer and wine                          $60
   Retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer
      Holding a non-profit organization license, per$60ar
      Off-sale only, (package sales), per year      $180
      On- and off-sale (Class C) per year           $360
   Retailer of beer
      Off-sale, per year                            $25
      On-sale, per year                             $25
Billiard and pool halls
   First table, per year                               $20
   Each additional table, per table, per year          $10
Bowling lanes
   First lane, per year                                $20
   Each additional lane, per lane, per year            $10
Fire insurance companies, per year                        $5
 
(Prior Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 618, passed 5-4-2005)
§ 111.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Fire Department, all revenue
realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund.
(Prior Code, § 10-602)
§ 111.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment thereof by
any person or persons to the City Clerk, the said City Clerk shall give a
receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said tax and the
amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees
shall be due and payable on November 1. The revenue collected shall then be
immediately deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer. The City
Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or
her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One
copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction. In the case of
occupation taxes levied against occupations and businesses respecting alcoholic
liquors, the amount of such occupation tax shall be deposited with the City
Clerk before the license is delivered to any application. The City Clerk shall
account to and pay said occupation tax to the City Treasurer immediately after
said license is issued and the City Treasurer shall credit the same to the
General Fund of the city. Upon the failure of any such application to pay said
occupation tax as herein provided, it shall be mandatory upon the governing
body to pass a resolution denying the application for a license or requesting
the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission to deny said application and said
resolution shall state the reason therefor and shall be forwarded to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 10-603)
§ 111.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person and business that paid the said tax. The
occupation tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible while business is being
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-604)
§ 111.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation tax as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All delinquent
taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-605)
CHAPTER 112: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Unlawful acts
   
112.04   Transaction related to residential real estate; discriminatory
practices prohibited
   
112.05   Multiple listing service; other service; discriminatory practices
prohibited
   
112.06   Religious organization, private home, private club, or housing for
older persons; restricting use not prohibited
   
112.07   Information
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of the city, by endorsing the provisions of the Nebraska Fair Housing
Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, to the effect that there shall be
discrimination in the city, in the acquisition, ownership, possession, or
enjoyment of housing in accordance with Article I, Section 25, of the Nebraska
Constitution.
(Ord. 585, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory housing practice; or believes that he or she will be injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or tended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereof of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with a parent or another
person having legal custody of such individual; or the designee of a parent or
other person having legal custody, with written permission of the parent or
other person.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person, a physical or mental impairment,
excluding the current illegal use of or addition to a controlled substance as
defined in section Neb. RS 28-401, which substantially limits one or more of
such person’s major life activities; or a record of having such an impairment,
or being regarded as having such in impairment.
   RENT. Lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status, or ancestry.
(Ord. 585, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 112.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as exempted by §
112.01 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to:
         (a)    Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status, or sex;
         (b)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status, or sex;
         (c)   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
         (d)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
         (e)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record
concerning the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial
status, or sex of a person seeking to purchase, rent, or lease any housing;
         (f)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants, or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
         (g)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee’s compliance
with this chapter or the Nebraska Fair Housing Act, being Neb. RS 20-301 to 20-
344; and
         (h)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
      (2)   The protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is regnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
   (B)   (1)   Except as exempted by §
112.01 if this chapter, it shall be unlawful to:
         (a)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
            1.   The buyer or renter;
            2.   Any person associates with the buyer or renter; or
            3.   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available.
         (b)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
            1.   Such person;
            2.   Any person associates with such person; or
            3.   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, discrimination shall include:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modification of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, or reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after September 1, 1991, a failure to
design and construct me dwellings in such a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Kitchens and bathrooms such mat a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (3)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
National Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ICC A117.1-2017,
shall satisfy the requirements of division (B)(2)(c)3. above.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS shall
mean:
         (a)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings
have one or more elevators; and
         (b)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 585, passed 9-3-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE; DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction because
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance;
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status, or sex.
(Ord. 585, passed 9-3-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICE; OTHER SERVICE; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against any person
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status,
or sex.
(Ord. 585, passed 9-3-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION, PRIVATE HOME, PRIVATE CLUB, OR HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS; RESTRICTING USE NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired, except that this exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. For purposes of this division (D),
HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS shall mean housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state program that the commission determines is
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or defined in the
program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 585, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 112.07 INFORMATION.
   The City Clerk, upon request, shall make available to an aggrieved person,
or any other person, information regarding the Nebraska Fair Housing Act, being
Neb. RS 20-301 to 20-344 and the Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission without
cost to such individual.
(Ord. 585, passed 9-3-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-322
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
Peddlers and Hawkers
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   City policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
Junk Dealers
   
113.25   Purpose
   
113.26   Definitions
   
113.27   Nuisance declared in fire limits
   
113.28   Fire limits; exception to nuisance declaration
   
113.29   License required
   
113.30   License renewal; fee
   
113.31   License application; original application
   
113.32   Confinement of junk on premises
   
113.33   Rodent and fire control
 
   
113.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this subchapter shall be as set
from time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire 90 days after
the date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall file an
application with the City Administrator. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3), has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall attach
to their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this subchapter may be revoked by
the City Administrator after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be revoked for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Commissioners. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Commissioners, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to such person in the same
manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Commissioners after the hearing shall be
final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this subchapter
shall be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event
more than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   (1)   The City Administrator shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this subchapter.
      (2)   The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed
Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the license.
      (3)   The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he
is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be or shall not be invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any
premises in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the
notice provided for in §
113.10, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
      (2)   If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10 above.
Penalty, see §
113.99
JUNK DEALERS
§ 113.25 PURPOSE.
   The Mayor and City Council hereby find and declare it to be in the public
interest to regulate junk dealers and the storage of junk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 113.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Scrap metal, used or second-hand parts of motor vehicles, machinery,
motor vehicles which are being kept for the purpose of being dismantled or
discarded, secondhand materials in general, bottles, scrap rubber, rags,
papers, and bones.
   JUNK DEALER.
      (1)   Any person who shall be engaged in the business of buying, selling,
receiving, storing, collecting, or dealing in any or all of the above-described
items or junk in general.
      (2)   In interpreting this subchapter insofar as the same applies to used
cars and second-hand parts of cars, the same shall not be deemed to apply to
bona fide second-hand automobile dealers, but the mere fact that the owner or
operator of said establishment reconditions or sells some second-hand cars
shall not eliminate his or her establishment from the effect of the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-402)
§ 113.27 NUISANCE DECLARED IN FIRE LIMITS.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to store or deposit on or cause to be stored or to be deposited any
junk on any premises located within the fire limits of the city as defined in
§§
92.25 through
92.29 of this code, except as is hereinafter provided, or on any premises
outside the fire districts of said city located within 300 feet of any building
used either for business or residential purposes or both such purposes, except
when said premises are operated and maintained by a licensed junk dealer
licensed under the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 10-403) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.28 FIRE LIMITS; EXCEPTION TO NUISANCE DECLARATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, upon the recommendation of the Chief of
the Fire Department, permit the storage of junk within the fire limits when the
same is stored in buildings or behind such enclosures as will prevent the
storage of said junk from becoming a menace to the safety of any property in
the city of the health of the inhabitants thereof. Such a permit as may be
granted by the City Council shall be subject at all times to revocation by the
City Council, when in its opinion, either the conduct of the party maintaining
such storage yard or the changed circumstances of the surrounding property are
such as to warrant such revocation. The revocation shall be made by resolution
and a copy thereof served upon the owner and occupant of the premises so
operated under a permit by having the Chief of Police serve a copy of said
resolution personally on said parties and, if such parties or any of them
cannot be served personally, then by mailing a copy of said resolution to the
owner and occupant at his last known address.
(Prior Code, § 10-404)
§ 113.29 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person, firm, or corporation now or hereafter engaged in the business
of junk dealer within the corporate limits of the city shall obtain a license
to engage in said business.
(Prior Code, § 10-405)
§ 113.30 LICENSE RENEWAL; FEE.
   All licenses so issued shall continue in force, unless sooner revoked or
suspended, to December 31 after the date of issuance thereof. Licenses may be
renewed by the Mayor and City Council upon application made for renewal with
the City Clerk for a period beginning January 1 of each year and ending
December 31 of that year. The license fee of $150 shall be paid to the city for
said annual renewal which shall be paid at the time of making application
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)
§ 113.31 LICENSE APPLICATION; ORIGINAL APPLICATION.
   All applicants for an original license under this subchapter shall file a
written application for such license with the City Clerk and with said
application, pay to the city the sum of $150, the fee for said license. Said
application shall state the name of the owner and operator of said business and
the location of the proposed business. The City Clerk shall submit said
application to the Mayor and City Council who shall make such investigation as
may be necessary of the proposed location set forth in said application, and
shall grant such license only if they deem the operation of the business in
said location will not be injurious to the public health, safety, and welfare,
and that the same will be enclosed by a screened fence which shall be seven
feet tall and constructed so as to eliminate the possibility of entry and exit
by children and animals, and that they are reasonably satisfied that the
premises proposed meet the requirements of this subchapter. In addition, said
application must set forth a uniform procedure for controlling rats and other
vermin to the satisfaction of the City Council. If the application is granted,
the City Clerk shall forthwith issue a license authorizing the applicant to
engage in the business as a junk dealer.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)
§ 113.32 CONFINEMENT OF JUNK ON PREMISES.
   Every junk dealer shall keep and confine the goods and materials received or
held by him or her within the limits of the premises for which license is
granted and none of the same shall be placed or be allowed to remain upon any
adjoining property, sidewalk, street or alley, only except as may be necessary
in the loading or unloading of the same and, in any event, the same shall be
promptly removed therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)
§ 113.33 RODENT AND FIRE CONTROL.
   (A)   All junk shall be kept or stored in such a manner as to make possible
control and eradication of rats and vermin and to minimize the danger of fire.
The owners and operators of junk yards shall use reasonable measures to the end
the junk yard shall not become or be infested with rats and vermin to the
extent public health, safety, and welfare are endangered.
   (B)   No open fire shall be started or permitted in any junk yard for the
purpose of burning junk or waste material.
(Prior Code, § 10-409) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
113.25 through
113.33 set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-410) (Ord. 620, passed 6-7-2006)
CHAPTER 114: RAILROAD COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   Safe crossings
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 SAFE CROSSINGS.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in or
traveling through the city to keep in a suitable and safe condition, the
crossings and right-of-way in the city. If any such crossing shall at any time
fall into disrepair and become unsafe or inconvenient for public travel, the
governing body may, by resolution, call upon the said company to make whatever
repairs that they may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition. Notice
of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the said
company. In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and
correct the said condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24
hours thereafter shall be deemed and is hereby made a separate and distinct
offense against the provisions herein.
(Neb. RS 17-143, 17-144) (Prior Code, § 10-501) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the city
may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner
provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-702)
(Ord. 620, passed 6-7-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722
CHAPTER 115: TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME CAMPS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Application for permit
   
115.03   Permit issuance and renewal
   
115.04   Maintenance
   
115.05   Inspection and regulation
   
115.06   Owners’ liability
   
115.07   Garbage and waste disposal
   
115.08   Plumbing
   
115.09   Water supply
   
115.10   Fire protection
   
115.11   Unlawful parking
   
115.12   Permit revocation
   
115.13   Validity
   
115.14   Territory to which chapter applicable
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER CAMP. Any location, land, building, and equipment thereon, and any
place where more than one trailer, cabin, or place of temporary human
habitation are temporarily parked, placed, or located and either owned, leased,
or operated for the foregoing purposes.
   TRAILER HOUSE. Any moveable or temporary habitation mounted on wheels,
skids, or other device, to permit movement or emplaced in such a manner to
facilitate movement.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 115.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A trailer camp shall not be established within the corporate limits of the
city or within the area one mile beyond such corporate limits until the owner
or person in control of such premises where such trailer camp is to be located
or an authorized representative shall have obtained a written permit for such
purpose from the city upon written application filed with the City Clerk and
granted by the Mayor and City Council; nor shall any trailer house be parked in
any public road, street, or alley within the corporate limits of the city of
the area one mile beyond the same between the hours of sunset and sunrise. Such
permit shall be obtained by application on prescribed forms of the city and the
trailer camp shall be in strict compliance with the rules and regulations and
ordinances of the city and the regulations of the Board of Health. Every
application for such permit shall set forth the names and addresses of all
persons and associates interested or to be interested in the operation and
maintenance of such trailer camp, together with a statement of the nature and
extent of their respective interests. Such application shall also exactly
describe the premises to be used for a trailer camp; the kind of bath and
toilet facilities for the use of the occupants of trailer houses; the distance
between the sites for each trailer house; distance to the nearest building and
the use to which any such building is put; and the availability of water
suitable for consumption and use by the occupants of said trailer houses.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
§ 115.03 PERMIT ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL.
   Upon the filing of the application for such permit, the City Clerk shall
notify the Chief of Police of the filing of the same and furnish him or her
with a copy thereof, and the said Chief of Police shall examine said premises
and sites for said trailer houses and examine as to whether or not all rules
and regulations of the city and the state are being observed in reference to
the safety of the occupants of the trailer houses in such trailer camp and, as
soon as practicable after receiving such notice, he or she shall verify the
statements of the application and forthwith submit his or her findings in
writing to the City Clerk. Likewise, the City Clerk shall furnish the Board of
Health with a copy of such application and as soon as possible, such Board of
Health shall report in writing to the City Clerk whether or not there are any
existing conditions with reference to the proposed trailer camp which might
injuriously affect the health and welfare of the occupants of said trailer
houses or the citizens of the city. To renew a trailer camp permit, the same
procedure shall be followed as in the original issuance thereof; and in any and
all events, a permit shall not be for any period of time exceeding one year.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
§ 115.04 MAINTENANCE.
   All such trailer camps shall be maintained under the management and
supervision of the owner or person in control of the premises on which the same
is located or of a duly authorized representative of such owner who shall be
personally responsible for the maintenance of trailer camps in accordance with
all sanitary and fire protection rules and regulations of the city and the
state.
(Prior Code, § 10-304)
§ 115.05 INSPECTION AND REGULATION.
   All trailer camps shall be under the supervision of the Board of Health
which Board shall make and provide for inspection of such trailer camps at
reasonable times and shall recommend to the City Council such additional rules
and regulations as may be deemed advisable or necessary for the sanitation,
safety, and proper maintenance of said trailer camps.
(Prior Code, § 10-305)
§ 115.06 OWNERS’ LIABILITY.
   The operator of a trailer camp shall be primarily liable for all utility
service bills charged against each trailer house and shall make monthly
remittances to the city for such bills.
(Prior Code, § 10-306)
§ 115.07 GARBAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL.
   The operator of any tourist camp shall provide proper receptacles for
garbage, cans, paper, and waste and shall be responsible for their disposal in
accordance with the ordinances and rules of the city and the Water
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 10-307)
§ 115.08 PLUMBING.
   If the sanitary sewer system of the city is available, the operator of a
trailer camp shall make available connections for each trailer house to such
system and shall be primarily responsible for such connection. If the city
sanitary sewer system is not available to the premises, the operator of such
trailer camp shall make other provisions for such plumbing facilities subject
to the rules and regulations of the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 10-308)
§ 115.09 WATER SUPPLY.
   The operator of any trailer camp shall always have readily available and
accessible a sufficient and safe water supply for all of the occupants of
trailer houses located in such trailer camp.
(Prior Code, § 10-309)
§ 115.10 FIRE PROTECTION.
   The operator of any trailer camp shall always have readily available
workable fire extinguishers and a sufficient available water supply for such
fire protection.
(Prior Code, § 10-310)
§ 115.11 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   No person shall park or occupy any trailer house on the premises of any
occupied dwelling or on any lot or parcel of land which is not a part of the
premises of any dwelling, either of which is situated outside the boundaries of
an existing trailer camp, except upon the written approval of the Board of
Health and the Commissioner of the Water Department. No person shall locate a
trailer camp within one block of a church or other public building.
(Prior Code, § 10-311) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   A permit to establish and maintain a trailer camp may be revoked by the
Mayor and City Council for cause at any time for a violation of the provisions
of this chapter or of the rules and regulations of any department of the city
or for any other cause or conduct reasonably deemed by the Mayor and City
Council as sufficient cause of revocation of such permit. Before the revocation
of such permit, the city shall cause to be served on the operator of such
trailer camp, a notice to appear and show cause, if any he or she has, on a
specified day and at a specified time why his or her permit for this trailer
camp should not be revoked. Such notice to show cause may be served by mailing
the same in the United States mail to the address of the operator given in his
or her application in such permit with sufficient postage affixed thereto. The
operator of the trailer camp involved shall be given reasonable opportunity to
be heard at the time fixed for his or her appearance to show cause, and no
permit for such trailer camp shall be revoked until the operator involved has
been heard at the designated time if he or she desires to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 10-312)
§ 115.13 VALIDITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
chapter shall be, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional, such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-313)
§ 115.14 TERRITORY TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this chapter and rules and regulations to which it refers
shall be applicable to all territory within the corporate limits of the city
and, under the authority of Neb. RS 17-1001, to all territory within one mile
of the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-315)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in any sum not less than $10 nor more than $100 and
shall pay the costs of prosecution, and in default of the payment of such fine
and costs, or either of them, shall be adjudged to stand committed to the
county jail until such fine and costs are fully paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-314)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
130.01   Impersonating an officer
   
130.02   Refusing to assist officer
   
130.03   Resisting officer
   
130.04   Abusing officer
   
130.05   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.06   Larceny
   
130.07   Concealing stolen property
   
130.08   Fire equipment
   
130.09   Trash
   
130.10   Drinking in public
   
130.11   Misrepresentation by minor
   
130.12   Minor in possession
   
130.13   Posted advertisements
   
130.14   Posting
   
130.15   Discharge of firearms
   
130.16   Concealed weapons
   
130.17   Slinghshots, air guns, and bb guns
   
130.18   Firecrackers
   
130.19   Assault and battery
   
130.20   Disturbing the peace
   
130.21   Littering
   
130.22   Prohibited fences
   
130.23   Appliances in yards
   
130.24   Obstruction of public view
   
130.25   Obstructing water flow
   
130.26   Removing dirt
   
130.27   Weed removal
   
130.28   Abandoned vehicles
   
130.29   Curfew
   
130.30   Disorderly conduct
   
130.31   Abatement of nuisance
   
130.32   Sex offenders
§ 130.01 IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a city or state police
officer to wear an official badge or uniform or to falsely and willfully
impersonate the said officials.
(Neb. RS 28-610) (Prior Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 REFUSING TO ASSIST OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist a police officer
when lawfully requested to do so by him or her.
(Neb. RS 28-903) (Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any police officer when such
officer is in the lawful performance of his or her duties.
(Neb. RS 28-904) (Prior Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or city
official in the execution of his or her office.
(Neb. RS 28-904) (Prior Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully, or maliciously injure in any manner or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another.
(Neb. RS 28-519) (Prior Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property, of the value of less than $300 shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-512, 28-514) (Prior Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 CONCEALING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Any person who receives or conceals stolen property, goods, or chattels of
any kind with the intent to defraud the owner or whoever receives or conceals
any money or other accountable receipts and evidences of ownership shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-517) (Prior Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the Fire
Department to deface, destroy, handle, or loiter about the equipment and
property of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or
negligently place or throw upon the premises of another any filth, garbage,
leaves, papers, or other matter to the annoyance of the owner or occupant
thereon.
(Neb. RS 28-523) (Prior Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.10 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways, or upon any property owned by the
city, with the exception of Lots 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, Block 7, Original City of
Randolph, Cedar County, Nebraska, inside the city auditorium located on said
premises or other governmental subdivision thereof or inside vehicles while
upon the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, in theatres, dance halls,
or any other place open to the public; provided, the provisions of this section
shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the state.
(Neb. RS 53-186) (Prior Code, § 6-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.11 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to represent that he or she is of the age
of 21 years for the purpose of asking for, purchasing, or receiving any
alcoholic beverages.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) (Prior Code, § 6-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.12 MINOR IN POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to transport,
knowingly possess, or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle beer
or other alcoholic liquor on any public street, alley, roadway, or property
owned by the state or any subdivision thereof or any other place within the
city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.13 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear,
deface, remove, or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person,
firm, or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully and lawfully
posted and the same remains of value.
(Prior Code, § 6-313) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.14 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paste, or paint any sign,
advertisement, or other writing of any nature upon a fence, pole, building, or
other property without the written permission of the owner of the said
property.
(Prior Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.15 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within the city; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (Prior Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to carry about their person
any concealed pistol, revolver, knife, billy club, slingshot, metal knuckles,
or other dangerous weapon of any kind. Nothing herein shall be construed to
apply to the city police.
(Neb. RS 28-1202) (Prior Code, § 6-316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 SLINGHSHOTS, AIR GUNS, AND BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-556) (Prior Code, § 6-317) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.18 FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale or
discharge any fireworks in the city except as provided herein, except it shall
be lawful for any person within the city to possess and discharge permissible
fireworks as defined by the state statutes and the State Fire Marshal between
June 24 and July 5 of each year between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
only.
(Prior Code, § 6-318) (Ord. 603, passed 11-2-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.19 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, threaten, strike, or injure
any other person or persons. Any person who assaults or batters another person
or persons shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-310) (Prior Code, § 6-319) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.20 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the city with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts by force
or violence against the city or residents therein or who shall disturb the
public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality. Any person or
persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (Prior Code, § 6-320) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, cast, lay, or drop on any
public way or property any paper, scrap material, or other waste whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 6-321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(Prior Code, § 6-322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 APPLIANCES IN YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless he or she shall first
remove all doors and make the same reasonably safe.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (Prior Code, § 6-323) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.24 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(Prior Code, § 6-324) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.25 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.26 REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb, or take
away from any street, alley, or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones, or
other materials forming a part of such street, alley, or public grounds without
first having obtained written permission to do so from the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-326) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.27 WEED REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of real estate in the city to cut and
clear such real estate, together with one-half of the streets and alleys
abutting thereon, of all weeds, grasses, and worthless vegetation. Such weeds,
grasses, and worthless vegetation shall be cut so as not to extend more than 12
inches above the ground. For purposes of this section, weeds, grasses, and
worthless vegetation shall not be defined to include any vegetation that is
primarily decorative, is used as part of a going business, and is within a
fenced enclosure and not visible to the general public from public right-of-
ways, or which planted or maintained as part of a garden or for landscaping
purposes. In order to qualify for the foregoing exemption, the property owner
must first apply for a permit from the governing body detailing the vegetation
to be planted or maintained. There shall be no fee for such permit. Subsequent
to the cutting of said weeds, grasses, and worthless vegetation, all lose
vegetation shall be immediately removed. Upon the failure of the owner, lessee,
or occupant having control of any such real estate to cut and clear said weeds,
grasses, and worthless vegetation as set forth hereinbefore, the city police
shall serve notice on said owner, lessee, or occupant to do so. In the event
that the weeds, grasses, and vegetation have not been removed after a period of
five days, the governing body may order the same to be done under the direction
of the Street Commissioner and the cost thereof shall be chargeable to the
property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the city after being properly
billed, the cost may be assessed against the real estate and certified to the
County Treasurer and the same shall be collected in the manner provided by law.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the city shall, before levying any special assessment against
that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by
means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of
the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
(Prior Code, § 6-327) (Ord. 674, passed 8-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 130.28 UNLICENSED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid in transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid in transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. of this section to be removed from public property in this
city, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state
agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or
4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. of this section to be removed from public property in
this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city which shall
have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner's agent, owner's employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or 4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. of this
section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911) (Ord. 624, passed 6-7-2006; Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.29 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 17 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or upon the public streets, sidewalks,
highways, roads, alleys, parks, public places and public buildings, places of
amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or other unsupervised places, or to
ride in or upon, drive, or otherwise operate any automobile, bicycle, or other
vehicle in, upon, over, or through the streets, alleys, or other public places
of the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day
on all the days of the week, except on Friday and Saturday when the curfew
hours shall be from 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. the following day, said curfew
hours shall be in force from September 15 to May 15 and from May 15 to
September 15. The curfew hours on Sunday through Thursday shall be from 12:00
a.m. to 5:00 a.m. unless such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care and custody of such minor person or
unless said minor person is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business
directed by his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian, unless exempted
under division (F) below.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 17 years to allow or
permit such minor person to do any of the things or acts prohibited by this
section, unless said minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care and custody of the minor or unless
said minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his
or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian, unless exempted under division (F)
below.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor under the age of 17 years to allow or
permit such minor person to do any of the things or acts prohibited by this
section unless said minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care and custody of the minor or unless
said minor is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his
or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian, unless exempted under division (F)
below.
   (D)   It is further ordained that no minor person arrested under the
provisions of this section shall be confined in jail until he or she has been
taken home or the parent, guardian, or legal custodian notified and the
arresting officer has ascertained whether or not such minor person is within
the control of its parent, guardian, or legal custodian; and if such parent,
guardian, or legal custodian shall state that said minor cannot be controlled
by them, then such minor shall be proceeded against; otherwise, the parent,
guardian, or custodian shall be proceeded against.
   (E)   Each violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conducted while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the discretion of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speed, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-330) (Ord. 591, passed 6-2-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.30 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk thereof, he or
she:
   (A)   Engages in fighting or threatening, or in violent or tumultuous
behavior;
   (B)   Makes unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture, or
display, or addresses abusive language to any person present; or
   (C)   Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition, by any act
which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
(Prior Code, § 6-331) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.31 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in this chapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722) (Prior Code, § 6-402)
§ 130.32 SEX OFFENDERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 to 71-1923.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which
may include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. Public, private, denominational, or parochial school, which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 to 29-4014.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 to 29- 4014, who has been
classified as Level 3 because of a high risk of recidivism as determined by the
State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of
age or younger.
   (B)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (C)   Measure of distance. For purposes of the determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 675, passed 8-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Barricades and lights
   
150.02   Abatement from nuisance
   
150.03   Portable storage containers
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Definition
   
150.16   Prohibitions
   
150.17   Determination; notice
   
150.18   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.19   Emergency
   
150.20   Special assessments
National Construction Codes
   
150.35   Building Code
   
150.36   Housing Code
   
150.37   Plumbing Code
   
150.38   Electrical Code
   
150.39   Lighting and thermal standards
   
150.40   Code for Safety to Life from fire in buildings and structures
   
150.41   International Property Maintenance Code
Building Permits
   
150.55   Generally required
   
150.56   Exemption from permit
   
150.57   Application for permit
   
150.58   Review of plans by State Fire Marshal
   
150.59   Issuance of permit
   
150.60   Valid permit authority
   
150.61   Expiration of building permit
   
150.62   Installation, repair, replacement of fireplaces
   
150.63   Permit fee
   
150.64   Duplicate to County Assessor
Vacant Properties
   
150.70   Purpose
   
150.71   Definitions
   
150.72   Public nuisance
   
150.73   Duty of owner
   
150.74   Vacant property registration
   
150.75   Exemptions
   
150.76   Registration forms
   
150.77   Vacant property fees
   
150.78   Emergency repairs
   
150.79   Removal of property from the registration list
   
150.80   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenants, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
city to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of said person to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the city
police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are erected
and maintained as required.
(Prior Code, § 9-201) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 ABATEMENT FROM NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this subchapter, the city may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner provided
by law.
(Prior Code, § 9-402)
§ 150.03 PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Definition. PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER is any box-like container
transported by truck or trailer to a desired location for drop-off with a
storage capacity of more than 216 cubic feet that would normally be stored at
an off-site location. A commonly accepted name for these storage containers is
PODS, an acronym for portable on-demand storage.
   (B)   Regulation of portable storage containers; permit required.
      (1)   The maximum allowable size for a portable storage container in a
residential district is 160 square feet with an overall length, not to exceed
20 feet.
      (2)   Not more than one portable storage container shall be allowed on
any property.
      (3)   Any portable storage container must be placed on a concrete or
asphalt surface of the dwelling, but no closer than ten feet from the property
line. Any portable storage container must also comply with the side and rear
lot setback line requirements.
      (4)   A portable storage container may be utilized on-site for a period
not to exceed 30 days in any 360-day period.
      (5)   A valid permit from the city is required.
   (C)   Placement on city streets prohibited; placard required. A portable
storage container shall not be allowed to be placed or unloaded on any city
street or right-of-way under any circumstances.
   (D)   Exceptions; permits.
      (1)   Extension of time. The city may grant a permit for the placement of
a portable storage container for more than 30 days, provided the property owner
has demonstrated that extenuating circumstances exist to justify the extension.
Extenuating circumstances shall include, but are not limited to, natural
disasters, fire, or acts of God.
      (2)   Validity. Permits under this section shall be valid for the period
specified on the permit from the date of issuance to the specific name and
approved location only.
      (3)   Fee requirements. All initial applications for permits and request
for renewal/extension of permits shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee
set by ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 682, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence, or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.17 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Council or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the city is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
“To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
“You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by ________________________________.
The causes for this decision are ________________________ (here insert the
facts as to the dangerous condition).
“You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the city will proceed to do so. Appeal of
this determination may be made to the City Council, acting as the Board of
Appeals, by filing with the City Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt
of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the City Council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.18 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City
Clerk request a hearing before the City Council, sitting as the Board of
Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The City Council shall grant such a hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the City Council’s
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail.
   (B)   If the City Council rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days
from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If
after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the City Council shall
proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property owner may appeal
the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which
proceedings the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any city police officer or member of the City Council shall at once
inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.19 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the city
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.20 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body.
   (B)   The governing body may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 622, passed 6-7-2006)
NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION CODES
§ 150.35 BUILDING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
incorporated by reference, in addition to all amended editions as though
printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the state
statutes. One copy of the Building Code is on file at the office of the City
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the city and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902) (Prior Code, § 9-301)
§ 150.36 HOUSING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in houses
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code is hereby
incorporated by reference, in addition to all amended editions as though
printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the state
statutes. One copy of the Housing Code is on file at the office of the City
Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The
provisions of the Housing Code shall be controlling throughout the city and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902) (Prior Code, § 9-302)
§ 150.37 PLUMBING.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the 2018 International Property
Maintenance Code is hereby incorporated by reference, in addition to all
amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not
conflict with the state statutes. One copy of the Plumbing Code is on file at
the office of the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be controlling
throughout the city and through its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902) (Prior Code, § 9-303)
§ 150.38 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and fireproof installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the 2018 International
Property Maintenance Code is hereby incorporated by reference, in addition to
all amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does
not conflict with the state statutes. One copy of the Electrical Code is on
file at the office of the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. The provisions of the Electrical Code shall be controlling
throughout the city and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902) (Prior Code, § 9-304)
§ 150.39 LIGHTING AND THERMAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. The city finds that there is a present and continuing need
to provide for the development and implementation of minimum lighting and
thermal efficiency standards for buildings to ensure coordination with federal
policy under the Energy Conservation Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6831 et seq., to promote the conservation of our dwindling
energy resources, and to provide for the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADDITION. Any construction added to an existing building which will
increase the floor area of that building by 5% or more.
      ARCHITECT or ENGINEER. Any person registered pursuant to Neb. RS 81-847.
      BUILDING. Any structure which utilizes or will utilize a heating system
cooling system, or domestic hot water system, including new buildings,
renovated buildings, and additions, but not including any structure which has a
consumption of traditional energy sources for all purposes not exceeding the
energy equivalent of one watt per square foot.
      FLOOR AREA. The total area of the floor or floors of a building,
expressed in square feet, which is within the exterior faces of the shell of
the structure which is heated or cooled.
      PRIME CONTRACTOR. The person, persons, entity, or entities who has a
contract with the owner and is the one responsible for the overall construction
of any building or the installation of any component which affects the energy
efficiency of the building. PRIME CONTRACTOR shall also mean a property owner
who performs the work of a PRIME CONTRACTOR.
      RENOVATION. Alterations on an existing building which will cost more than
50% of the replacement cost of such building at the time work is commenced or
which was not previously heated or cooled for which a heating or cooling system
is now proposed, except that the restoration of historical buildings shall not
be included.
      RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building three stories or less that is used
primarily as one or more dwelling units.
      STANDARD. The Model Energy Code, 1983 Edition, of the Council of American
Building Officials.
      TRADITIONAL ENERGY SOURCES. Electricity, petroleum based fuel, uranium,
coal, and all non-renewable forms of energy.
   (C)   Chief Building Inspector. The Chief Building Inspector for the city
shall be appointed for a two-year term at the organizational meeting of the
City Council by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Standard. The standard shall apply to new residential buildings and
all other new buildings or renovations of or additions to any existing
buildings on which construction is initiated on or after August 26, 1983.
   (E)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from this section:
      (1)   Any building which has a peak design rate of energy usage for all
purposes of less than one watt or three and four-tenths British Thermal Units
per hour per square foot of floor area;
      (2)   Any building which is neither heated nor cooled;
      (3)   Any building or portion thereof which is owned by the United States
of America;
      (4)   Any mobile home as defined by Neb. RS 71-4603;
      (5)   Any modular housing unit as defined by Neb. RS 71-1557(1);
      (6)   Any historic building as defined by Neb. RS 77-1385; and
      (7)   All residential buildings shall be exempt from lighting efficiency
standards.
   (F)   Inspections and investigations.
      (1)   The Chief Building Inspector or any person designated by him or her
shall conduct inspections and investigations necessary to enforce the standard
and may, at reasonable hours, enter into any building and upon any premises
within its jurisdiction for the purpose of examination to determine compliance
with this section. Inspections shall be conducted only after permission has
been granted by the owner or occupant or after a warrant has been issued
pursuant to Neb. RS 29-830 to 29-835.
      (2)   During construction, the Chief Building Inspector or persons
designated by him or her shall make periodic inspections to assure compliance
with this section.
   (G)   Building plans and submission for approval.
      (1)   Prior to the construction of, renovation of, or addition to any
building covered by this section, the prime contractor shall file sufficient
plans and specifications with the City Clerk who shall notify the Chief
Building Inspector of the filing of said plans. Said plans and specifications
shall enable the Chief Building Inspector to make a determination whether such
building will comply with the above standards. The Chief Building Inspector
shall, within 30 days of the filing, approve or disapprove the plans and
specifications. If disapproved, the reason shall be set forth in writing to the
prime contractor.
      (2)   If the Chief Building Inspector determines that such construction,
renovation, or addition will comply with the standard, he or she shall issue a
written permit, which the prime contractor shall display in a conspicuous place
on the premises where the addition shall commence until a permit is issued and
displayed as required by this section. The prime contractor shall build or
cause to be built said project to the best of his or her knowledge according to
said standard.
      (3)   The person filing the application for a permit shall, at the time
of such filing, pay to the city the sum of $30 for residential buildings and
$0.01 per gross square foot for any other building.
      (4)   If an architect or engineer is retained, the architect or engineer
shall place his or her state registration seal on all construction drawings
which shall indicate that the design meets the standard. The prime contractor
shall certify that he or she will build in accordance with the construction
documents prepared by the architect or engineer. This certification must
accompany the building plans submitted to the Chief Building Inspector for
approval.
(Neb. RS 81-1608 through 81-1631) (Prior Code, § 9-305)
§ 150.40 CODE FOR SAFETY TO LIFE FROM FIRE IN BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   To achieve the objectives, the Life Safety Code, 1994 Edition,
published by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy,
Massachusetts, and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated in
this section by reference, in addition to all amended editions as though
printed in full herein in so far as said Code does not conflict with the state
statutes, and its provisions shall apply to and govern the use of all buildings
in the city. One copy of the Life Safety Code handbook is on file at the office
of the City Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. Provisions of the Life Safety Code shall be controlling throughout the
city and compliance with its provisions shall be mandatory within the
boundaries of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this section by failing
to comply with the provisions of the Life Safety Code or to permit or maintain
such violation, to refuse to obey any provisions thereof, or to fail or refuse
to comply with any such provisions or regulations, except as variation may be
allowed by action of the Mayor and City Council in writing.
   (C)   The Mayor and the City Council shall have the power to grant exemption
of application from specific requirements of regulations promulgated pursuant
to this section upon request in writing when such request shows that the
enforcement of the specific requirements will cause unnecessary hardship to the
petitioner or in order to take advantage of new methods or equipment of
recognized adequacy, provided that such request shall not be granted unless the
requested equipment or use will, in the opinion of the Mayor and City Council,
conform with all of the fundamental requirements of safety. The particulars of
such exemptions, when granted, shall be entered upon the approval granted.
(Prior Code, § 9-308) (Ord. 576, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2018 Edition as published by the International Code Council, be and is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city for regulating and
governing the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and
structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities,
and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures
are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of
buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition
of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the office of the city are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 709, passed - -2020)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.55 GENERALLY REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation, nor the state, county or city government,
or any agency, subdivision, or department thereof, shall erect, construct,
enlarge, remodel, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish,
occupy, or change occupancy of any building or structure in the city, or do any
other work or cause the same to be done, without first having obtained a
separate permit for the specific work to be done for each operation from the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.56 EXEMPTION FROM PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Residential.
         (a)   No building permit shall be required for repainting,
redecorating, minor alterations, and repairs where the alterations or repairs
do not materially affect the actual structure of the building or the safety of
the occupants or property.
         (b)   A building permit is not required if the alteration or repair is
a comparable replacement of the whole or part of the system that was removed
(such as a mechanical system, plumbing system, roofing, windows, or doors, and
the like) and there are no material alterations to the structure in excess of
$1,000 in the replacement of the system.
         (c)   A state electrical permit shall be required as required by the
State Electrical Code for residential buildings. The State Electrical Inspector
shall conduct all residential inspections.
      (2)   Commercial.
         (a)   All commercial buildings shall have the same exemptions as
residential.
         (b)   A state electrical permit shall be required as required by the
State Electrical Code for commercial buildings. The State Electrical Inspector
shall conduct all commercial inspections.
   (B)   Exemptions from the permit requirements of this code shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of the adopted Building Code for the city.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.57 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by lot,
block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Show the use or occupancy of all parts of the building;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications;
      (5)   State the valuation of the proposed work;
      (6)   Be signed by the permittee, or his or her authorized agent, who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate authority; and
      (7)   Give other information as reasonably may be required by the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.58 REVIEW OF PLANS BY STATE FIRE MARSHAL.
   Plans stamped by an architect or engineer shall be submitted to the State
Fire Marshal for review if the building is more than 5,000 square feet,
occupied by 20 or more people, or more than 30 feet high. The builder shall be
responsible for submitting the plans to the State Fire Marshal, and for
notifying the State Fire Marshal for final inspection.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.59 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application, plans, and specifications filed by an applicant for a
permit shall be checked by the City Clerk. All items of construction for which
a permit is required shall conform with this chapter, and as such, be
"approved" by the City Clerk. Upon payment of the permit fee and "approval" of
the plans and specifications, the permit shall be issued.
   (B)   The City Clerk may issue a permit for the construction of part of a
building or structure before the entire plans and specifications for the whole
building or structure have been submitted or approved, provided adequate
information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all
pertinent requirements of this chapter. The holder of the permits shall proceed
at his or her own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire
building or structure will be granted.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.60 VALID PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and specifications
shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of
any of the provisions of this code. No permit presuming to give authority to
violate or cancel the provisions of this code shall be valid, except insofar as
the work or use which it authorized is lawful.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.61 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within 90 days
from the date of issuance thereof or if the work described in any building
permit has not been substantially completed within two years of the date of
issuance thereof, the permit shall expire and be cancelled by the City Clerk
and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together
with notice that any work as described in the cancelled permit shall not
proceed unless and until a new building permit has been obtained; provided,
however, times for commencement or completion may be extended by the Planning
Commission prior to the expiration of the time periods; and provided further,
no building or other structure in the city shall be allowed to remain in an
unfinished condition for a period of over six months nor shall any building or
other structure in the city be allowed to remain in an unsafe, damaged, or
demolished condition for a period of more than 90 days.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.62 INSTALLATION, REPAIR, REPLACEMENT OF FIREPLACES.
   The installation, repair, and replacement of any fireplace or similar device
to produce heat by the burning of wood or other solid substance shall require
the application and approval of a building permit therefore and shall otherwise
be subject to all of the building, electrical, and fire codes of the city.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.63 PERMIT FEE.
   A fee for each building permit shall be paid to the City Clerk. The City
Council shall have the power and authority to establish permit fees by
resolution. Where work for which a permit is required by this chapter is
started or proceeded prior to obtaining the permit, the fees as established by
the City Council by resolution shall be doubled, but the payment of the double
fee shall not relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of
this chapter in the execution of the work, nor from any other penalties
prescribed.
(Ord. 724, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 150.64 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the city's corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (Ord. 725, passed 2-2-2022)
VACANT PROPERTIES
§ 150.70 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Recognizing that vacant commercial and residential buildings
(hereinafter referred to as "vacant properties") contribute to blight,
discourage economic development, hinder appreciation of property values,
endanger public health and safety, attract criminal activity, and create fire
hazards, it is the responsibility of property owners to prevent vacant
properties from becoming a burden to the neighborhood and community and a
threat to the public health, safety and welfare. Maintenance of the public
health, safety, and welfare thus requires the city to maintain an accurate
registration of all vacant properties. Any fees imposed under a vacant property
registration ordinance have the potential to benefit the owners of vacant
properties by helping to finance additional government services to protect the
value and security of such properties.
   (B)   That from after the passage, approval, and publication of this
division (B), after any residential or commercial building demolition, the
contractor or individual removing structure shall properly remove and cap off
all existing utilities (gas, electric, water, and sewer lines and meters)
associated with the demolition work if property is to be left vacant or
unoccupied after demolition. Contractor or individual shall dig to the water
main and properly cap and shut off water to the property before exiting the
site after demolition if property is to be left vacant or unoccupied after
demolition.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022; Ord. 749, passed 2-12-2025)
§ 150.71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A building with more than 50% of its floor space used
for commercial activity. For the purpose of this subchapter, floor space shall
be designated as the area on the main or street level of the building. Also for
the purpose of this subchapter, commercial activity means having the objective
of supplying commodities (goods and services), industrial uses, industrial
manufacturing, and ancillary business functions.
   OWNER OF VACANT PROPERTY. The person or persons shown to be the owner or
owners of record on the records of the register of deeds.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A housing structure or other framework, together with
such land on which the dwelling and appurtenant buildings are located, that is
used or intended to support occupancy of one or more persons for non-business
purposes. This includes, but is not limited to the following: a house, a
condominium, a townhouse, an apartment unit or building, or a trailer house.
   VACANT. The property has been vacant for 180 days or longer and during such
time, has continuously exhibited evidence of vacancy as described in §
150.74.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.72 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Vacant properties shall constitute a public nuisance. The City of Randolph
is given the power and authority pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1720 to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent such nuisances. A vacant property registration
ordinance places a duty on the owner of vacant properties to assist the city in
preventing public nuisance. The City Clerk shall be the program administrator
for the vacant property registration list and said registration applies to any
and all vacant properties within the city limits.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.73 DUTY OF OWNER.
   All owners of vacant property subject to a vacant property registration
ordinance, adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-5406, and shall be required to
register such property with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.74 VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner of a vacant property must register said property with the
City Clerk within 30 calendar days of written notice provided to the owner or
the owner's resident agent of the existence of the vacant property. Such notice
shall be served on the owner or resident agent by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. If notice by personal service or
certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city or by conspicuously posting the
notice on the commercial building or residential building which is vacant. A
copy of the notice under this section shall be recorded by the County Clerk, or
his or her designee, in the records of the Register of Deeds for Cedar County,
Nebraska and indexed against the premises. For purposes of this section,
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY means any condition or circumstance that on its own or in
combination with other conditions or circumstances would lead a reasonable
person to believe that a residential building or commercial building is vacant.
Such conditions or circumstances may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Overgrown or dead vegetation, including grass, shrubbery, and other
plantings;
      (2)   An accumulation of abandoned personal property, trash or other
waste;
      (3)   Visible deterioration or lack of maintenance of any building or
structure on the property;
      (4)   Graffiti or other defacement of any building or structure on the
property; or
      (5)   Any other condition or circumstance reasonably indicating that the
property is not occupied for residential purposes or being used for the
operation of a lawful business.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a vacant property shall not be used for
storage unless specifically allowed pursuant to the City of Randolph zoning
ordinances.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.75 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter provides the following exemptions to the vacant property
registration and fee requirements, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Property only considered to be a seasonal residence;
   (B)   Property of an owner who is temporarily absent, but who has
demonstrated his or her intent to return;
   (C)   Property damaged by fire, weather, an act of God, or vandalism;
   (D)   Property under construction or renovation pursuant to a valid building
permit issued by the City of Randolph;
   (E)   Property subject to divorce, probate or estate proceedings;
   (F)   Property of an owner who is absent and cannot occupy such property due
to medical reasons;
   (G)   Property that is "for sale," "for rent," or "for lease" and where the
owner can produce sufficient good faith evidence of active marketing of sale,
rent or lease; and
   (H)   Property owned by the federal government, the State of Nebraska, or
any political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.76 REGISTRATION FORMS.
   (A)   The required vacant property registration shall be submitted on the
form provided by the city. The form shall include, but not be limited to the
following: the name, current mailing address, telephone number, facsimile and
email address (if applicable) of the property owner and his or her agent; the
street address and parcel identification number of the vacant property; the
transfer date of the instrument conveying the property to the owner; the date
on which the property became vacant; and such other information deemed
necessary by the city. The form shall also include the period of time the
vacant property is expected to remain vacant, and a plan and timetable for
performance of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Returning the vacant property to the appropriate occupancy or use;
      (2)   Marketing the property for sale or lease;
      (3)   Making any necessary repairs; or
      (4)   Demolition of the property.
   (B)   All applicable laws and codes shall be complied with by the owner. The
owner shall notify the city of any changes in information supplied as part of
the vacant property registration within 30 calendar days of the change.
   (C)   If the owner of the vacant property does not reside in Cedar County
for at least 180 days in a calendar year, then the owner must provide
information for a resident agent with authority to act with respect to the
property, including the name, current mailing address, phone number, and any
other contact information of the owner's agent. Any subsequent owner of a
vacant property must register or re-register the building with the city within
30 calendar days of any transfer of any ownership interest in the vacant
property. The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved plan and timetable
submitted by the previous owner until any proposed changes are submitted by the
new owner and meet the approval of the city.
   (D)   An owner who acquires a vacant property for which a registration fee
has already been paid for a particular period is not liable for an additional
registration fee for that period; however, the new owner must register the
change of ownership with the city.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.77 VACANT PROPERTY FEES.
   (A)   Residential property. There is no fee for initial registration of
vacant residential property. However, if the owner fails to remedy the vacant
property and successfully have it removed from the vacant property registration
list within 180 days from the initial registration date, or within 180 days
from the initial registration date deadline if the owner fails to register the
property, then the owner of a vacant residential property shall be assessed a
fee in accordance with the fee table below, payable to the City of Randolph,
until the vacant property is removed from the registration list.
   (B)   Commercial property. There is no fee for initial registration of
vacant commercial property. However, if the owner fails to remedy the vacant
property and successfully have it removed from the vacant property registration
list within 180 days from the initial registration date, or within 180 days
from the initial registration date deadline if the owner fails to register the
property, then the owner of a vacant commercial property shall be assessed a
fee in accordance with the fee table below, payable to the City of Randolph,
until the vacant property is removed from the registration list.
   (C)   Fee table.
Fee Residential Commercial
Fee               Residential Commercial
Year one          Free        Free
Year two          $25         $100
Year three        $50         $250
Year four         $100        $475
Year five         $150        $650
Year six          $200        $825
Year seven and up $250        $1000
 
   (D)   Registration fees may be refundable for the year preceding the date on
which the property is no longer vacant. Unpaid registration fees shall become a
lien on the premises, as well as a liability of the responsible party.
Additionally, the City Attorney may institute appropriate action against the
owner for the recovery of such costs.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.78 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the City
Clerk to do so, the city may summarily repair such building or structure.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.79 REMOVAL OF PROPERTY FROM THE REGISTRATION LIST.
   An owner may have his or her vacant property removed from the vacant
property registration by providing sufficient notification and evidence to the
City Clerk, or his or her designee, that said vacant property no longer meets
the definition of vacancy as described in §
150.74. The City Clerk, or his or her designee, may then evaluate or inspect
the property to determine whether the property should be removed from the
registration list.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.80 APPEALS.
   Upon receiving notice declaring a that a building is vacant or remains
vacant, the owner of the building may appeal such decision within 20 calendar
days of receipt of the notice. Such appeal shall be in writing to the City
Clerk accompanied by a non-refundable appeal fee. Such appeal shall request a
hearing before the Mayor and City Council to present reasons why the building
should not be declared vacant. The appeal fee shall be set by resolution of the
Mayor and City Council. The Mayor and City Council shall set such hearing
within 20 business days from the date of receipt of the written request. A
written notice of the Mayor and City Council decision following the hearing
shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail or shall be provided at
the conclusion of the meeting. If the Mayor and City Council rejects the
appeal, the owner shall have 30 calendar days from the decision to register the
vacant building; provided, the property owner may appeal such decision, within
30 calendar days of the Mayor and City Council decision, to the appropriate
court for adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the Mayor and
City Council shall be stayed.
(Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply. In addition, the city may, by an action in the District Court,
enforce the provisions of this chapter through equity and injunctive processes.
(Prior Code, § 9-401)
   (B)   Any person who shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with
criminal negligence, violate §
150.03 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed $500. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   Violation of §
150.40  shall be a misdemeanor subject to a $100 fine for each occurrence and
shall be repeated for each day each occurrence continues.
(Prior Code, § 9-308)
   (D)   (1)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of §§
150.70 et seq. who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform such duty, or who
shall violate a provision of §§
150.70 et seq. shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $500, except that each person
so convicted shall be fined in a sum of not less than $200 for the first
offense, not less than $300 for the second offense, and not less than $400 for
the third offense and each offense thereafter. The penalty herein provided
shall be cumulative with and in addition to the revocation, cancellation, or
forfeiture of any license, permit, or right elsewhere provided for or as
provided by law. Each day that a violation of §§
150.70 et seq. continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and
shall be punishable as such.
      (2)   Any and all civil penalties assessed under §§
150.70 et seq. shall be billed to the owner or other responsible party. Failure
or refusal to pay any and all such penalties permits the city to pursue any and
all available legal remedies for the enforcement and collection of such
penalties including, but not limited to, civil actions being filed in district
court, suits or actions being maintained in any court of competent
jurisdiction, abatement of nuisances maintained in violation of §§
150.70 et seq., institution of injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate
action or proceedings to enforce the penalty provisions of §§
150.70 et seq. This section in no way limits the penalties, actions or
abatement procedures which may be taken by the city for a violation of any
other ordinance of the city or statute of the State of Nebraska.
(Ord. 576, passed 1-3-1995; Ord. 620, passed 6-7-2006; Ord. 682, passed 7-5-
2017; Ord. 730, passed 11-9-2022)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
Municipal Limits
   
151.01   Defined
   
151.02   Original plats
MUNICIPAL LIMITS
§ 151.01 DEFINED.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official municipal map and plat on file at the office of the County
Clerk, having been by act or ordinance of the governing body or by law duly
annexed to or made a part of this municipality or having been by the act,
authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their respective
owners, created either as the original town site or as additions to the
municipality are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
municipality. Lawfully constituted additions or changes in said municipal
limits shall be indicated upon said maps and plat by the City Engineer after
such addition or change has been completed in accordance with the ordinances of
the city and the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 11-101)
§ 151.02 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the municipality and
not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter, including the
original plat of the city, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed as
valid and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and
outlots as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Clerk
and not heretofore vacated and all other parcels of ground included within said
corporate limits are hereby declared to be within said city and an integral
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 11-102)
CHAPTER 152: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Relief
   
152.04   Other approvals
   
152.05   Laws, rules, and regulations
Deploymont in the Right-of Way
   
152.20   Applicability
   
152.21   Agreement for use of the right-of-way
   
152.22   Administrative review
   
152.23   Right-of-way construction and installation requirements
   
152.24   Attachment to and replacement of decorative poles
   
152.25   General work requirements
   
152.26   Location of new facilities
   
152.27   Removal, relocation, and abandonment
   
152.28   Indemnification
   
152.29   Insurance
   
152.30   Independent technical and legal review
   
152.31   Shot clocks
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be known as the small wireless
facilities regulations for the right-of-way. It is the purpose of these
provisions to delineate restrictions, development standards, and siting
criteria, and establish removal procedures in order to protect the city from
the uncontrolled siting of wireless communication facilities in locations that
have significant adverse effects and cause irreparable harm.
   (B)   The legislature found and declared in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, being Neb. RS 86-1201 to 86-1244, that:
      (1)   The deployment of small wireless facilities and other next
generation wireless facilities is a matter of state-wide concern and interest
and public policy;
      (2)   Wireless products and services are a significant and continually
growing part of the state’s economy and that encouraging the development of
strong and robust wireless communications networks throughout the state is
necessary to address public need and policy, and is integral to the state’s
economic competitiveness;
      (3)   Rapid deployment of small wireless facilities will serve numerous
important state-wide goals and public policy, including meeting growing
consumer demand for wireless data, increasing competitive options for
communications services available to the state’s residents, improving the
ability of the state’s residents to communicate with other residents and with
their state and local governments, and promoting public safety;
      (4)   Small wireless facilities, including facilities commonly referred
to as small cells and distributed antenna systems, are deployed most
effectively in public rights-of-way;
      (5)   To meet the public need and policy and the key objectives of the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act that wireless providers must have
access to the public rights of-way to density their networks and provide next
generation wireless services;
      (6)   Uniform procedures, rates, and fees for permit issuance and
deployment of small wireless facilities in public rights-of-way and on
authority infrastructure, including poles, throughout the state that are
reasonable and will encourage the development of robust next-generation
wireless networks for the benefit of residents throughout the state; and
      (7)   The procedures, rates, and fees in the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act, together with any taxes, fees, or charges imposed under Neb. RS
86-704, are fair and reasonable when viewed from the perspective of the state’s
residents and the state’s interest in having robust, reliable, and
technologically advanced wireless networks; and reflect a balancing of the
interests of the wireless providers deploying new facilities and the interests
of authorities in receiving fair value by recovering their costs of managing
access to the public rights-of-way and provide for the attachment space on
authority infrastructure and enable the reviewing and processing of
applications for the installation of small wireless facilities within the
rights-of-way.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being Neb. RS 86-1201 to
86-1244.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform Building, Fire, Safety, Electrical, Plumbing, or
Mechanical Codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to such codes, so long as such amendments are not in conflict with
the Act and to the extent such codes have been adopted by the authority and are
generally applicable in the jurisdiction.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A written request submitted by an applicant to an authority for
a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure; or for a permit for approval for the installation,
modification, or replacement of a utility pole to support the installation of a
small wireless facility.
   AUTHORITY. The state or any agency, county, city, village, or other
political subdivision thereof, except as otherwise excluded herein. AUTHORITY
does not include public power suppliers, state courts having jurisdiction over
an AUTHORITY, or an entity that does not have zoning or permit-granting
authority.
   AUTHORITY POLE. A utility pole owned, managed, or operated by or on behalf
of an authority.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure or utility pole. COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION does not include the
installation of a new utility pole or new wireless support structure in the
right-of-way.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components
including wires, cables, and associated facilities used by a cable operator as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51), as such section
existed on January 1, 2019, a provider of information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 153(24), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, or a wireless
services provider, to provide communications services, including cable service
as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(8), as such section existed on January 1, 2019
wireless services, or other one-way or two-way communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522, as
such section existed on January 1, 2019, an information service as defined in
47 U.S.C. § 153, as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a
telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as such section
existed on January 1, 2019, or a wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522, a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, or a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as such sections
existed on January 1, 2019. COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER includes a wireless
provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. An authority pole that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A network consisting of transceiver equipment at
a central hub site to support multiple antenna locations throughout the desired
coverage area.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. As defined in federal regulations.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEE. A one-time, non-recurring charge.
   GOVERNING BODY. The group of elected officials which is able to make
decisions on behalf of the city.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, in accordance with Stipulation VI.D.1.a (i)-(v) of
the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review of Effects on Historic
Properties for Certain Undertakings Approved by the Federal Communications
Commission codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appendix C, as such regulation existed
on January 1, 2019, or designated pursuant to state historic preservation law
if such designation exists at the time of application.
   LAW. Federal, state or local law, statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order, or ordinance.
   MACRO CELL. An antenna or antennas mounted on a tower, ground-based mast,
rooftops, or structures, at a height that provides coverage to the surrounding
area.
   MICROWIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in
height, and with any exterior antenna no longer than 12 inches.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by an authority to perform an
action, initiate, continue, or complete installation of a small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or attached to an existing wireless
support structure, or to install, modify, or replace a utility pole to support
installation of a small wireless facility.
   POLE. A legally constructed pole, such as a utility, lighting, or similar
pole made of wood, concrete, metal, or other material, located, or to be
located within the right-of-way.
   PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district or any other governmental
entity providing electric service. PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER includes a municipal
electric utility or a rural PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, dedicated utility easement, or similar property, but
not including a freeway as defined in Neb. RS 39-1302, the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways, or a private easement.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Inspections, testing, or repair that maintain
functional capacity, aesthetic, and structural integrity of a small wireless
facility and the associated structure, pole, or tower, and that does not
involve impeding, damaging, or disturbing any portion of the right-of-way.
   RURAL PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district, a public power and
irrigation district, an electric cooperative, or an electric membership
association that does not provide electric service to any city of the
metropolitan class, city of the primary class, or city of the first class.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities are mounted on structures 50 feet or less in height
including the antennas; or are mounted on structures no more than 10% taller
than other adjacent structures;
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the structure, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, is no more than 28 cubic feet in volume;
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. part 17, as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019;
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. § 800.16(x), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019; and
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R. §
1.1307(b), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019.
   STEALTH. A design that minimizes the visual impact of wireless communication
facilities by camouflaging, disguising, screening, or blending them into the
surrounding environment. Examples of STEALTH design include but are not limited
to facilities disguised as trees (monopines), flagpoles, utility and light
poles, bell towers, clock towers, ball field lights, and architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas or flush-mounted antennas that are either
painted to match or enclosed in an architecturally, applicable box.
   SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE. As defined in federal regulations.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. That by virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design or site
location, can be implemented without a reduction in the functionality of the
small wireless facility.
   TOWER. Any structure in the right-of-way built for the sole or primary
purpose of supporting a wireless communication facility.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the tower
structure at grade to the highest point of the structure including the antenna.
A lightning rod, not to exceed ten feet in height, shall not be included within
tower height.
   TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT. Equipment that facilitates transmission for any FCC-
licensed or authorized wireless communication service, including, but not
limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, microwave dishes, coaxial or fiber-
optic cable, and backup power supplies. The term includes equipment associated
with wireless communication services including, but not limited to, private,
broadcast, and public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services
and fixed wireless services, such as microwave backhaul.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole located in the right-of-way that is used for wireline
communications, lighting, the vertical portion of support structures for
traffic-control signals or devices, or a similar function, or for the
collocation of small wireless facilities and located in the right-of-way.
UTILITY POLE does not include wireless support structures; any transmission
infrastructure owned or operated by a public power supplier or rural public
power supplier; and any distribution or communications infrastructure owned or
operated by a rural public power supplier.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
equipment associated with wireless communications; and radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular power supply, and small backup
battery, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS FACILITY includes
small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does not include the structure or
improvements on, under, or within the equipment which is collocated; coaxial or
fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures or utility poles or that
is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly associated with, a
particular antenna; or a wireline backhaul facility.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the state, when acting to build or
install wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or
wireless support structures, but that is not a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER or PROVIDER. A wireless services provider or a wireless
infrastructure provider when acting as a co-applicant for a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether mobile or at a fixed location, provided to
the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure, such as a guyed or self-supporting
tower, billboard, building, or other existing or proposed structure designed to
support or capable of supporting wireless facilities other than a structure
designed solely for the collocation of small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a communications
network.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.03 RELIEF.
   Any applicant desiring relief, waiver, or exemption from any aspect or
requirement of these regulations may request such, provided that the relief,
waiver, or exemption is contained in the submitted application. The burden of
proving the need for the requested relief, waiver, or exemption is solely on
the applicant. No such relief, waiver, or exemption shall be approved unless
the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that, if granted
the relief, waiver, or exemption will have no significant effect on the health,
safety, and welfare of the city, its residents, and other service providers.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.04 OTHER APPROVALS.
   All other proposed installations within the right-of-way involving wireless
communication facilities (for example, where the facilities do not qualify as
small wireless facilities), shall require the issuance of a conditional use
permit or special use permit under the this code.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.05 LAWS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations
now or hereafter enacted.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
DEPLOYMONT IN THE RIGHT-OF WAY
§ 152.20 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Public power supplier poles. A public power supplier shall not be
required to allow the collocation of small wireless facilities on utility poles
owned, operated, or managed by a public power supplier, except pursuant to a
negotiated pole attachment agreement containing reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms and conditions, including, but not limited to, applicable
rates, and the permit, operational, and safety requirements of the public power
supplier. The city is a public power supplier.
   (B)   Annual rate for collocation on public power supplier poles. The annual
pole attachment rate for the collocation of a small wireless facility supported
by or installed on a utility pole owned, operated, or managed by a public power
supplier shall be fair, reasonable, non-discriminatory, cost-based, and set by
the board of such public power supplier in accordance with Neb. RS 70-655.
   (C)   Placement. This chapter only applies to the deployment of small
wireless facilities in the right-of-way with the exception that the application
fees provided in the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order
released September 27, 2018, apply to small wireless facilities in and outside
of the right-of-way.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.21 AGREEMENT FOR USE OF THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Agreement. Prior to installing in the right-of way any small wireless
facility, or any pole built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting a
small wireless facility, or any tower, a person shall enter into an agreement
with the city expressly authorizing use of the right-of-way for the small
wireless facility, pole, or tower proposed to be installed. The agreement shall
provide for the attachment to city poles or structures in the right-of-way in
addition to poles or structures owned by unrelated third parties, provided that
the applicant secures the written consent of the third party for such
attachment.
   (B)   General terms.
      (1)   The term of an agreement shall be for up to ten years. The
agreement may be renewed for an additional term of ten years subject to the
mutual written agreement of the city and provider.
      (2)   The agreement authorizes the provider’s non-exclusive use of the
right-of-way for the sole purpose of installing, maintaining, and operating
wireless communication facilities, including any pole built for the sole or
primary purpose of supporting the wireless communication facilities and any
tower, to provide the services expressly authorized in the agreement, subject
to applicable laws, this chapter and the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The agreement authorizes use only of the right-of-way in which the city has an
actual interest. It is not a warranty of titre or interest in any right-of-way
and it does not confer on the provider any interest in any particular location
or to a superior or preferred location within the right-of-way. Nothing herein
shall authorize the use of the city’s poles, towers, support structures, or
other structures outside of the right-of-way. All use of city poles, towers,
support structures, and other structures in the right-of-way shall require a
separate attachment agreement or be specifically provided for in the agreement
and shall include the payment of fees for such use.
      (3)   The provider shall, at its sole cost and expense, keep and maintain
its wireless communication facilities, poles, support structures, and towers in
the right-of-way in a safe condition, and in good order and repair.
      (4)   In the event of an emergency regarding the provider’s small
wireless facilities, or related poles, support structures, or towers, the
provider shall immediately notify the city of the nature of the emergency and
planned response to the emergency.
   (C)   Permit required. No person may construct, install, or maintain in the
right-of-way any wireless facilities without first receiving a permit from the
city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of an emergency, a wireless
provider or its duly authorized representative may work in the right-of-way
prior to obtaining a permit, provided that the provider shall contact the city
prior to commencing the work and shall apply for a permit as soon as reasonably
possible, but not later than 24 hours after commencing the emergency work. For
purposes of this division (C), an EMERGENCY means a circumstance in which
immediate repair to damaged or malfunctioning facilities is necessary to
restore lost service or prevent immediate harm to persons or property.
   (D)   Permit application requirements. The application shall be submitted by
the wireless provider or its duly authorized representative and shall contain
the following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and email address,
including emergency contact information for the applicant;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of all
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant or provider with respect
to the filing of the application;
      (3)   A description of the proposed work and wireless communication
facility sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
      (4)   If applicable, a copy of the authorization from the owner of the
pole, tower, or support structure on or in which the wireless communication
facility will be placed or attached;
      (5)   Detailed construction drawings and photo simulations regarding the
proposed wireless communication facility;
      (6)   To the extent the proposed wireless communication facility involves
collocation on a pole, tower, or support structure, a structural report
prepared by a state licensed professional engineer evidencing that the pole,
tower, or support structure will support the collocation (or that the pole,
tower, or support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements)
in accordance with applicable codes;
      (7)   For any new above-ground wireless communication facilities,
accurate visual depictions or representations, if not included in the
construction drawings or photo simulations;
      (8)   Any other submission requirements per published city policies or
regulations; or
      (9)   All applications for small wireless facility installations in the
right-of-way shall be made to the City Administrator.
   (E)   Proprietary or confidential information in application. Applications
are public records that may be made publicly available pursuant to the Nebraska
Public Records Law, being Neb. RS 84-712. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
applicant may designate portions of its application materials that it
reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential information as
“proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking each portion of such
materials accordingly, and the city shall treat the information as proprietary
and confidential, subject to the Nebraska Public Records Law and the city’s
determination that the applicant’s request for confidential or proprietary
treatment of application materials is reasonable and in compliance with such
law. The city shall not be required to incur any costs to protect the
application materials from disclosure, other than the city’s routine procedures
for complying with the Nebraska Public Records Law.
   (F)   Routine maintenance and repair. A permit shall not be required for
routine maintenance and repair. The provider or other person performing the
routine maintenance and repair shall obtain any other permits required by
applicable laws and shall notify the city in writing at least 48 hours before
performing the routine maintenance and repair.
   (G)   Application fees and bonds. All applications pursuant to this chapter
shall be accompanied by the requisite fees required by the city. Unless
otherwise provided in an agreement or agreed to in writing by the city, a
performance or construction bond or other form of surety acceptable to the city
equal to at least 100% of the estimated cost of the work within the right-of-
way shall be provided before the applicant commences work.
   (H)   Effect of permit. A permit from the city authorizes an applicant to
undertake only the activities in the right-of-way specified in the application
and permit, and in accordance with this chapter and any conditions included in
the permit. A permit does not authorize attachment to or use of existing poles,
towers, support structures, or other structures in the right-of-way. A
permittee or wireless provider must obtain all necessary approvals from the
owner of any pole, tower, support structure, or other structure prior to any
attachment or use. A permit does not create a property right for the applicant.
The applicant shall not interfere with other uses or users of the right-of-way.
   (I)   Duration. Any permit for construction issued under this chapter shall
be valid for a period of one year, provided that the one-year period may be
extended for up to an additional one year upon approval by the governing body
or its designee upon the written request of the applicant (made prior to the
end of the initial one-year period) if the failure to complete construction is
as a result of circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the applicant.
   (J)   Multiple sites. An applicant may submit not more than ten sites in a
consolidated application for small wireless facilities, provided that the
proposed wireless communication facilities are to be deployed on the same type
of structure using similar equipment within the city.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Approval process. Small wireless facilities in the right-of-way may be
approved through administrative review if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   A complete application is submitted, all fees are paid, and a
permit is obtained by the applicant or provider;
      (2)   Each new, modified, or replacement pole, tower, or structure
installed in the right-of-way shall not exceed the height limits of the
respective zoning district. If a height limit is exceeded, then either a
conditional use permit or special use permit is required; and
      (3)   The applicant complies with all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Design standards. Subject to division (A)(2) above, all poles and
small wireless facilities may be approved through administrative review if the
following design standards and recommended design guidelines (if adopted) are
met by the applicant:
      (1)   Height, shape, design, and color for poles and related equipment;
      (2)   Number, location, and styles of poles that may be installed or
used;
      (3)   Aesthetic approach for different types of poles and related
equipment;
      (4)   Construction approach per wireless communication facility,
including powering and metering;
      (5)   Structural integrity;
      (6)   Setbacks for poles and ground-mounted equipment;
      (7)   Ground-mounted equipment for small wireless facilities may be used
only to house equipment in support of the operation of the facilities;
      (8)   Lighting, marking, and noise requirements;
      (9)   Fencing/landscaping/screening/signage requirements;
      (10)   Collocation analysis;
      (11)   Use of decorative poles, where necessary; and
      (12)   A written report will be prepared, signed, and sealed by a state
licensed professional engineer or a qualified employee of the applicant, which
assesses whether the proposed small wireless facility demonstrates compliance
with the radio frequency (“RF”) emissions limits established by the FCC. The
qualified employee of the applicant shall submit his or her qualifications with
the report.
   (C)   Design guidelines. The governing body may approve by resolution
additional recommended design guidelines. Further changes to those recommended
design guidelines are subject to the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.23 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lighting. Towers may not be artificially lighted, unless required by
public safety, the FAA, or applicable city regulation.
   (B)   State or federal requirements. All towers and antennas must meet
current standards and regulations of the FAA, FCC, and any other agency of the
local, state, or federal government with authority to regulate towers and
antennas.
   (C)   Building codes. To ensure the structural integrity of poles and
towers, the owner of a pole or tower shall ensure that the pole or tower is
maintained in compliance with industry standards and applicable state and local
building code standards.
   (D)   Public notice. For purposes of this chapter, any application for a
small wireless facility or pole, variance, exception, or appeal of a request
for a permit requires public notice to all adjoining property owners and all
owners of surrounding properties as may be required by the city.
   (E)   Equipment cabinets. The equipment cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes and zoning requirements.
   (F)   Site plan. A site plan is required. A scaled site plan shall clearly
indicate the location, type, height, and width of the proposed pole, on-site
land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, photo
simulations, a depiction of all proposed transmission equipment, proposed means
of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings or renderings of
the proposed pole and any other structures, topography, utility runs, and other
information deemed necessary to assess compliance with this chapter
   (G)   Inventory of existing sites. Not more than one time per year, each
applicant owning a macro cell tower shall provide to the city an inventory of
the wireless provider’s existing towers, antennas, or sites approved for towers
or antennas, that are either within the jurisdiction of the city or within one
mile of the border thereof, including specific information about the location
and tower height. The city may share such information with other applicants
applying for administrative review or other permits under this chapter or other
organizations seeking to locate antennas within the jurisdiction of the city,
provided, however, that the city is not, by sharing such information, in any
way representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (H)   Color. To the extent feasible, the antennas shall be placed and
colored to blend into the architectural detail and coloring of the host
structure. Towers and antennas shall be painted a color that best allows them
to blend into the surroundings. The use of grays, blues, greens, dark bronze,
browns, or other site-specific colors may be appropriate; however, each case
shall be evaluated individually.
   (I)   Signs. No facilities may bear any signage other than that required by
law or expressly permitted or required by the city.
   (J)   Visual impact. All small wireless facilities in residential districts,
historic, and downtown districts shall be sited and designed with stealth
features to minimize adverse visual impacts on surrounding properties and the
traveling public to the greatest extent reasonably possible, consistent with
the proper functioning of the wireless communication facilities. Such wireless
communication facilities and equipment enclosures shall be integrated through
location and design to blend in with the existing characteristics of the site.
Stealth and concealment techniques must be appropriate given the proposed
location, design, visual environment, and nearby uses, structures, and natural
features. Such wireless communication facilities shall also be designed to
either resemble the surrounding landscape and other natural features where
located in proximity to natural surroundings, or be compatible with the built
environment or be consistent with other uses and improvements permitted in the
relevant zone.
   (K)   Obstruction. Any new pole or support structure or equipment associated
with small wireless facilities shall not obstruct access to:
      (1)   Any existing above-ground or underground right-of-way user
facilities or public facilities;
      (2)   Any public infrastructure for traffic-control, street light, or
public transportation purposes including, without limitation, any vehicular
traffic sign or signal or pedestrian traffic sign or signal;
      (3)   Any public transportation street furniture or other improvements at
any public transportation stop;
      (4)   Fire hydrants; or
      (5)   Any doors, gates, or other ingress and egress points to any
building appurtenant to the right-of-way.
   (L)   Placement and notice.
      (1)   All pole-mounted transmission equipment shall be mounted as close
as technically possible to the pole so as to reduce the overall visual profile
to the extent feasible subject to applicable safety codes.
      (2)   Prior to the installation or construction of a small wireless
facility within the right-of-way or utility easement, the wireless provider
must notify all utilities located within such right-of-way or utility easement
regarding its proposed use of the right-of-way or utility easement.
   (M)   Accessory equipment. All accessory equipment located at the base of a
pole or tower shall be placed (at the provider’s choice) underground, or in an
equipment cabinet that is designed to blend in with existing surroundings,
using architecturally compatible construction and colors; and be located so as
to be unobtrusive as possible consistent with the proper functioning of the
wireless communication facilities.
   (N)   Site design flexibility. Individual sites vary in the location of
adjacent buildings, existing trees, topography, and other local variables. By
mandating certain design standards, there may result a project that could have
been less intrusive if the location of the various elements of the project
could have been placed in more appropriate locations within a given site.
Therefore, the wireless communication facilities and supporting equipment may
be installed so as to best camouflage, disguise, or conceal them, to make the
wireless communication facilities more closely compatible with and blend into
the setting or host structure, upon approval by the city.
   (O)   New poles. To the extent technically feasible, new poles must be
designed to match the existing light fixtures and other poles, and they shall
serve a dual purpose (for example, a new light fixture, flag pole or banner
clips).
   (P)   Maps and as-builts. The wireless provider shall furnish to the city
paper and electronic maps showing the location of its equipment in the right-
of-way and as-builts after construction is completed.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.24 ATTACHMENT TO AND REPLACEMENT OF DECORATIVE POLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this chapter, an applicant
may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative pole, or replace a
decorative pole with a new decorative pole unless the city has determined, in
its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachments and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics of the decorative pole.
   (B)   An applicant may not install a small wireless facility on a decorative
pole, replace a decorative pole with a new decorative pole, or install new
above-ground facilities in the Historic District unless the city has
determined, in its sole discretion, that each of the following conditions has
also been met:
      (1)   The application qualifies for issuance of a permit; and
      (2)   The attachment and replacement pole are in keeping with the
aesthetics and character of the decorative pole and Historic District.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.25 GENERAL WORK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General safety and compliance with laws. The permittee shall employ
due care during the installation, maintenance, or any other work in the right-
of way, and shall comply with all safety and construction requirements of
applicable laws, city guidelines, standards and practices, and any additional
commonly accepted safety standards.
   (B)   Traffic-control. Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the
permittee shall erect a barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and
provide appropriate traffic-control devices, signs, and lights to protect,
warn, and guide the public (vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone.
The manner and use of these devices shall be as described within a traffic-
control plan. The permittee shall maintain all barriers and other traffic-
control and safety devices related to an open excavation until the excavation
is restored to a safe condition or as otherwise directed by the city.
   (C)   Non-interference. The permittee shall not interfere with any existing
facilities or structures in the right-of-way, and shall locate its lines and
equipment in such a manner as not to interfere with the usual traffic patterns
(vehicular or pedestrian) or with the rights or reasonable convenience of
owners of property that abut any right-of-way.
   (D)   Utility locates. Before beginning any excavation in the right-of way,
the permittee shall comply with the Nebraska One Call Notification System Act,
being Neb. RS 76-2301 to 76-2332.
   (E)   Compliance with permit.
      (1)   All construction practices and activities shall be in accordance
with the permit and approved final plans and specifications. The city and its
representatives shall be provided access to the work site and such further
information as they may require to ensure compliance with such requirements.
All work that does not comply with the permit, the approved plans and
specifications for the work, or the requirements of this chapter, shall be
removed at the sole expense of the permittee. The city may stop work in order
to assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to obtaining a permit for installation of a small
wireless facility or pole, an applicant must obtain all other required
approvals from the city.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.26 LOCATION OF NEW FACILITIES.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall not locate or maintain its wireless
communication facilities so as to interfere with the use of the right-of-way by
the city, by the general public, or by other persons authorized to use or be
present in or upon the right-of-way.
   (B)   Whenever any existing electric utilities, natural gas, water or sewer
lines (or other public improvements), and communications facilities are located
underground within a right-of way, the wireless provider with permission to
occupy the same portion of the right-of-way shall locate its wireless
communication facilities underground at its own expense where technically
feasible. The city may, in its sole discretion, approve above-ground placement
of equipment cabinets, pedestals, and similar equipment. For facilities or
equipment, such as small wireless facilities that cannot, by their nature,
operate unless located above-ground, the wireless provider and city shall work
to find a suitable location for such facilities or equipment.
   (C)   In performing any work in or affecting the right-of-way, the wireless
provider, and any agent or contractor of the provider, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws.
   (D)   (1)   The wireless provider, or its agent or contractor, shall
restore, repair, and replace any portion of the right-of-way that is damaged or
disturbed by the provider’s wireless communication facilities or work in or
adjacent to the right-of-way as required in this chapter and all other
applicable laws.
      (2)   If the wireless provider fails to timely restore, repair, or
replace the right-of-way as required in this division (D)(2), the city or its
contractor may do so and the provider shall pay the city’s costs and expenses
in completing the restoration, repair, or replacement including attorneys’ fees
and expenses.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.27 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Within 30 days following written notice from the city, the wireless
provider shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change, or alter the position of any
of its wireless communication facilities within the right-of-way, including
relocation of above-ground wireless communication facilities underground
(consistent with the provisions of this chapter), whenever the city has
determined, in its sole discretion, that such removal, relocation, change, or
alteration is necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or
installation of any city improvement, the operations of the city in, under, or
upon the right-of-way, or otherwise is in the public interest. The wireless
provider shall be responsible to the city for any damages the city may incur as
a result of the provider’s failure to remove or relocate its wireless
communication facilities.
   (B)   The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any wireless
communication facility located within the right-of-way of the city, as the city
may determine, in its sole discretion, to be necessary, appropriate, or useful
in response to any public emergency. If circumstances permit, the city shall
notify the wireless provider and give the provider an opportunity to move its
own facilities prior to cutting or removing the wireless communication
facilities. In all cases, the city shall notify the wireless provider after
cutting or removing the wireless communication facility as promptly as
reasonably possible.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall notify the city of abandonment of any
wireless communication facility at the time the decision to abandon is made;
however, in no case shall such notification be made later than 30 days prior to
abandonment. Following receipt of such notice, the wireless provider shall
remove its wireless communication facility at the provider’s own expense,
unless the city determines, in its sole discretion, that the wireless
communication facility may be abandoned in place. The wireless provider shall
remain solely responsible and liable for all of its wireless communication
facilities until they are removed from the right-of-way unless the city agrees
in writing to take ownership of the abandoned wireless communication
facilities.
   (D)   If the wireless provider fails to timely protect, support, temporarily
or permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change, or alter any of its
wireless communication facilities or remove any of its abandoned wireless
communication facilities as required in this division (D), the city or its
contractor may do so and the provider shall pay all costs and expenses related
to such work, including any damages the city incurs arising from the delay and
attorneys’ fees and expenses.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.28 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The applicant and wireless provider shall defend, indemnify, and hold
harmless the city, its agents, officers, officials, and employees from any and
all damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, attorneys’ fees, costs, and
expenses, whether for personal injury, death, or property damage, arising out
of or in connection with the activities or performance of the applicant or
wireless provider. In the event the city becomes aware of any actions or
claims, the city shall promptly notify the applicant and wireless provider and
reasonably cooperate in the defense. It is expressly agreed that the city shall
have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld,
the legal counsel providing the city’s defense, and the applicant and the
wireless provider, as applicable, shall reimburse the city for any costs,
expenses, and attorneys’ fees directly and necessarily incurred by the city in
the course of the defense.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.29 INSURANCE.
   No person shall own or operate a small wireless facility within the city
without having secured and at all times maintained in place insurance coverage
which controls to the following:
   (A)   Comprehensive general liability, automobile, worker’s compensation,
employers’ liability, and umbrella insurance in amounts satisfactory to the
city;
   (B)   For a small wireless facility in the right-of-way, the commercial
general liability insurance policy shall specifically include the city and its
officers, officials, employees, and agents as additional insureds;
   (C)   All insurance policies shall be issued by an agent or representative
of an insurance company licensed to do business in the state; and
   (D)   Such policies shall not be modified or cancelled without 30 days prior
written notice being given to the city and the insurance must be replaced by
the owner of the wireless communication facility up to its original amounts.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.30 INDEPENDENT TECHNICAL AND LEGAL REVIEW.
   Although the city intends for municipal staff to review applications to the
extent feasible, the city may retain the services of an independent technical
consultant and attorney of its choice to provide technical and legal
evaluations of permit applications. The technical consultant and attorney shall
have recognized qualifications in the field of small wireless facilities. The
review may include, but is not limited to the accuracy and completeness of the
items submitted with the application; the applicability of analysis and
techniques and methodologies proposed by the applicant; the validity of
conclusions reached by the applicant; and whether the proposed small wireless
facilities comply with the applicable approval criteria set forth in this
chapter. The applicant shall pay the cost for any independent technical
consultant and attorneys’ fees through a deposit, estimated by the city, within
ten business days of the city’s request. When the city requests such payment,
the application shall be deemed incomplete for purposes of application
processing time lines until the deposit is received. In the event that such
costs and fees do not exceed the deposit amount, the city shall refund any
unused portion within 30 days after the final permit is released or, if no
final permit is released, within 30 days after the city receives a written
request from the applicant. If the costs and fees exceed the deposit amount,
then the applicant shall pay the difference to the city before the permit is
issued. The technical consultant and attorney shall provide an itemized
description of the services provided and related fees and costs. The fees shall
be limited to a reasonable approximation of costs and the costs shall be
reasonable.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.31 SHOT CLOCKS.
   (A)   Eligible facilities requests. This division (A) implements § 6409(a)
of the Spectrum Act, 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as interpreted by the FCC in its
Report and Order No. 14-153 and the FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report
and Order released September 27, 2018, which requires a state or local
government to approve any eligible facilities request for a modification of an
existing tower or base station that does not result in a substantial change to
the physical dimensions of such tower or base station. Eligible facilities
requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including, but not
limited lo, application review, the 60-day shot clock, tolling, and the deemed
granted remedy. Eligible facilities requests are subject to administrative
review by the city.
   (B)   Small wireless facilities; collocation on existing structures. This
division (B) implements the 60-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the collocation of small wireless facilities on existing structures.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the 60-
day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling, and
available remedies.
   (C)   Small wireless facilities; construction (new structures). This
division (C) implements the 90-day shot clock which is contained in the FCC’s
Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order released September 27, 2018,
regarding the construction of small wireless facilities on a new structure.
These requests shall be governed by the provisions of federal law including,
but not limited to, application review and incompleteness, resetting of the 90-
day shot clock once upon timely notice of incompleteness, tolling, and
available remedies.
   (D)   Collocation for other than small wireless facilities. This division
(D) implements, in part, 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications
Act of 1934, as amended, as interpreted by the FCC regarding collocation
applications for other than small wireless facilities including, but not
limited to, application review, the 90-day shot clock, and tolling.
   (E)   New macro cell towers. This division (E) implements, in part, 47
U.S.C. § 332(c)(7) of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, as amended, as
interpreted by the FCC regarding new macro cell tower applications including,
but not limited to, application review, the 150-day shot clock, and tolling.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable with
a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation. Each day that a violation occurs or
is allowed to exist by the applicant or wireless provider constitutes a
separate offense.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-2-2020)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Preamble
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Purpose
   
153.005   Definitions
Application of Regulations
   
153.015   General
   
153.016   Zoning affects every building and use
   
153.017   Yard and lot reduction prohibited
   
153.018   Minimum requirements
   
153.019   Nonconformities
Establishment and Designation of Districts
   
153.035   Planning Commission recommendations
   
153.036   Districts created
   
153.037   Official zoning map
   
153.038   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
Zoning Districts
   
153.050   AG Agricultural Residential District
   
153.051   R-1 Residential District
   
153.052   R-2 Residential District
   
153.053   R-3 Residential/Commercial District
   
153.054   C-1 Commercial Business District
   
153.055   C-2 Highway Commercial District
   
153.056   I-1 Industrial District
   
153.057   Floodplain Overlay
Special Use Permit
   
153.070   General
   
153.071   Procedures
Parking Regulations
   
153.085   Traffic visibility
   
153.086   Loading requirements
   
153.087   Sign regulations
Accessory Uses and Supplemental Regulations
   
153.100   Accessory building
   
153.101   Home occupations
   
153.102   Fences
   
153.103   Manufactured homes
   
153.104   Recreational vehicles, trailers, or equipment
   
153.105   Swimming pools/public and private
   
153.106   Yard regulations
   
153.107   Exceptions to height regulations
Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
153.120   Creation; membership
   
153.121   Meetings
   
153.122   Interpretations and variances
   
153.123   Procedures for requesting a variance
   
153.124   Appeals from the Board of Zoning Adjustment
Administrative Provisions and Enforcement and Fees
   
153.135   Introduction
   
153.136   Governing body
   
153.137   Planning Commission
   
153.138   Zoning Administrator
   
153.139   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
153.140   Enforcement
   
153.141   Schedule of fees
Amendment
   
153.155   General
   
153.156   Submission to Planning Commission
   
153.157   Amendment consideration and adoption
   
153.158   Protest
Complaints and Remedies
   
153.170   Complaints regarding violations
   
153.171   Remedies
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   This chapter, adopted under the authority conferred by the state
statutes, regulates the zoning of certain lands within the corporate limits of
the city and within the area one mile beyond the corporate limits; for the
purpose of promoting the health, safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and
welfare of the present and future inhabitants in the city by regulating and
restricting the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures, the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces, and the location
and use of buildings, structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, or
other purposes in accordance with the Randolph Comprehensive Plan and the
zoning maps adopted herewith, to provide enforcement procedures and penalties;
to provide for severability of any part.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish certain minimal standards.
Any existing ordinances, parts of ordinances or resolutions previously existing
requiring a more stringent standard shall remain in full force and effect and
be complied with.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to, and cited as the Zoning Code of
the city.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the planning jurisdiction
of the city, as established on the map entitled “The Official Zoning Map of the
City of Randolph, Nebraska”. The jurisdiction includes the zoning areas within
and out to one mile of the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.004 PURPOSE.
   In pursuance of the authority conferred by Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-929, as
amended, this chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, convenience, order, prosperity, and welfare of the present and future
inhabitants in the city by regulating and restricting the height, number of
stories, and size of buildings and other structures, the size of yards, courts,
and other open spaces, and the location and use of buildings, structures, and
land for trade, industry, residence, or other purposes in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and the zoning maps adopted herewith
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General provisions. The following rules of construction shall apply
unless inconsistent with the plain meaning of the context of this chapter.
      (1)   Tense. Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and words
used in the plural include the singular.
      (3)   Shall and may. The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is
permissive.
      (4)   Headings. In the event that there is any conflict or inconsistency
between the heading of an subchapter, section or division of this chapter and
the context thereof, the said heading shall not be deemed to affect the scope,
meaning, or intent of such context.
   (B)   General terminology. The word “city” shall mean the City of Randolph,
Nebraska. The word “governing body” shall mean the City Council of Randolph,
Nebraska. The words “Planning Commission” shall mean the Planning Commission of
Randolph duly appointed by the governing body of the city. Words or terms not
herein defined shall have their ordinary meaning in relation to the context.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A building or use that exhibits the following:
         (a)   Constructed or located on the same lot as the principal building
or use served, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this
chapter; and
         (b)   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in purpose and area to, and
serves the principal use.
      AGRICULTURAL FARM OR OPERATION.
         (a)   A tract of land used for the purpose of obtaining a profit by
raising, harvesting, and selling crops or by the feeding, breeding, management,
and sale of or the produce of livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals, or
honeybees, or for dairying and any other agricultural or horticultural use. In
contrast to a livestock feeding operation, as hereinafter defined in the
definition of INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK FACILITIES/OPERATIONS/FEEDLOTS (LFO), any
person or entity operating within the following categories shall be considered
to be a farming operation and shall not be considered as operating a LFO unless
the operation exceeds the following:
            1.   One animal unit (AU), as defined in the definition for ANIMAL
UNIT herein, per acre for a parcel less than 40 acres in size;
            2.   One and one-half AU per acre for a parcel of land greater than
40 acres, but less than 80 acres; or
            3.   Two AU per acre for parcels over 80 acres.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of 1. through 3. above, any time
the number or combination of animal units (AU) exceeds 250, regardless of the
size of the parcel of land, the operation shall be considered a LFO in this
chapter.
      ANIMAL UNIT. One animal unit shall equal one head of slaughter or feeder
cattle, seven-tenths head of mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows),
two and five-tenths swine each weighing over 55 pounds, 25 weaned pigs each
weighing less than 55 pounds, five-tenths head of horses, ten sheep or lambs,
50 turkeys, 100 laying hens or broilers, if the facility has continuous
overflow watering, 30 laying hens or broilers if the facility has a liquid
manure system, and/or five ducks.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. A building other than a hotel or motel, where, for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals, lodging, or
lodging and meals are provided. This includes BREAD AND BREAKFAST facilities
and tourist homes accommodating not more than 20 persons.
      BUILDABLE AREA: The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
      BUILDING. An enclosed structure, anchored to permanent foundation, and
having exterior or party walls and a roof, designed for the shelter of persons,
animals, or property. When divided by other than common or contiguous walls,
each portion or section of such building shall be regarded as a separate
BUILDING, except that two buildings connected by a breezeway shall be deemed
one building. BUILDING includes STRUCTURE.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance to the highest point of the roof
structure, measured from the base of the building.
      CAMP GROUNDS. Any premises where two or more camping units are parked/
placed for camping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for supplying to
the public, camping space for two or more camping units for camping purposes,
which include any buildings, structures, vehicles, or enclosures used or
intended for use or intended wholly or in part for the accommodation of
transient campers.
      CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility, which is or should be licensed by the
Nebraska Department of Social Services under the authority of Neb. RS 71-1908
through 71-1918.
      CHILD CARE HOME. A private home providing care (for children) for
compensation, which is or should be licensed by the Nebraska Department of
Social Services.
      CLUB. Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a corporation,
association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or recreational
purpose, but not primarily for profit which inures to any individual and not
primarily to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use that is allowed in a zone when specified
conditions have been complied with as identified for each district as a
conditional use. A CONDITIONAL USE permit is reviewed and issued by the Zoning
Administrator.
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof that is designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used for occupancy
by three or more families living independently of each other and containing
three or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A building having accommodations for or occupied
exclusively by one family. Any residential structure shall meet the following
criteria:
         (a)   Shall be structurally anchored to a permanent foundation and
said foundation shall meet local, state, and/or federal building codes; to be
constructed from either poured concrete or laid masonry block or brick on a
footing to be placed a minimum of 42 inches below the final ground level;
         (b)   Shall have at least one habitable room with not less than 120
square feet of gross floor area;
         (c)   Other habitable rooms shall have not less than 70 square feet of
floor area, except for kitchens;
         (d)   Habitable rooms shall have not less than seven feet in any
horizontal dimension;
         (e)   Ceiling height effect on room area.
            1.   Portions of a sloped ceiling measuring less than five feet or
a furred ceiling measuring less than seven feet from the finished floor; and
            2.   The finished ceiling shall not be considered as contributing
to the minimum required habitable area for the room;
         (f)   Ceiling heights shall be a minimum of seven feet in habitable
spaces, hallways, bathrooms, and toilet rooms;
         (g)   Every dwelling shall have toilet facilities - water closet,
lavatory, and a bathtub or shower;
         (h)   Shall have a kitchen area and sink;
         (i)   The unit shall provide heating and cooling systems as required
by local, state and/or federal codes;
         (j)   All electrical shall be in compliance with all local, state and/
or federal electrical codes;
         (k)   The unit shall meet all egress requirements found in local,
state, and/or federal codes;
         (l)   All modifications needed to convert the machine shed into a
dwelling unit shall be required to have all modifications designed and
engineering by a licensed architect and/or engineering;
         (m)   All structures shall meet the maximum coverage on a lot as any
ordinary single-family dwelling;
         (n)   The home shall have no less than 800 square feet of living
space, above grade, for single story construction;
         (o)   The home shall have no less than 18-feet exterior width;
         (p)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two
and one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
         (q)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with existing site-built, single-family residences; and
         (r)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material that is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock. However, standing seam roofs
are allowable provided it’s non-reflective.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two dwelling
units entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
persons for the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose or purposes.
      FARM. See AGRICULTURAL FARM OR OPERATION.
      FARM RESIDENCE. Residential dwellings located on a farm, including mobile
homes appurtenant to agricultural operations, including the living quarters for
persons employed on the premises.
      FARMSTEAD. Any building site that includes at least two buildings that
have combined assessed valuation for tax purposes of at least $5,000 as of the
date on which these regulations go into effect.
      FLOODPLAIN. Those lands within the zoning jurisdiction of the city that
are subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The
regulatory floodplain for this chapter shall be based on the official flood
hazard boundary map or flood insurance administration, U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development and any revision thereto. The city participates
in the National Flood Insurance Program regulation of floodplain development
and complies with Nebraska Minimum Standards for Floodplain Management
Programs. Copies of said map, are on file and available in the office of the
City Clerk.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or activity carried on within the dwelling
or accessory building by a member of the family residing on the premises, which
occupation or activity is incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy
and does not change the residential character nor infringe upon the right of
neighboring residents.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which:
         (a)   Does not have a current state license plate; or
         (b)   Which may or may not have a current state license plate, but is
disassembled or wrecked in part or in whole, or is unable to move under its own
power; or
         (c)   Is not equipped as required by Nebraska State Law for operation
upon streets or highways. A vehicle which is wholly or partially dismantled
shall not be considered inoperable when said vehicle is inside a completely
enclosed building.
      INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK FACILITIES/OPERATIONS/FEEDLOTS (LFO). A lot or
portion of a lot used for the enclosing and feeding of livestock for market.
The confined feeding of animals in buildings, lots, or pens which are not used
for the raising of crops or the grazing of animals. Except for temporary
confinement, such as during seasonal adverse weather, any of these terms,
INTENSIVE LIVESTOCK FACILITIES/OPERATIONS/FEEDLOTS shall include the confined
animal feeding operation of livestock for other than farm operator; livestock
when not in conjunction with a farming operation; or exceeding two animal units
(AU) per acre for parcels over 80 acres or 250 total animal units as defined
herein.
      KENNELS.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. An establishment where four or more dogs or
cats or any combination thereof, or other household pets are groomed, bred,
boarded, trained or sold as a business.
         (b)   PRIVATE KENNEL. Any premises used for the keeping of three or
less dogs, five cats, five poultry, or a combination thereof by the owner/
occupant or occupant of the premises for the purpose of show or hunting, or as
pets. The dogs, cats, and chickens shall belong to the owner/occupant or
occupant and their keeping shall be accessory to the main use of the premises.
      LANDFILL. A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing
solid wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental hazards by spreading,
compacting to the smallest volume, and applying cover material over all exposed
waste at the end of each operating day.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupation in this chapter
and fronting upon a street or road.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets or roads at their
intersection.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street or road.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot of which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds the description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance on a horizontal plane between the side lot lines
of a lot, measured at right angles to the line establishing the lot depth.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure which is to be used as a
place for human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a
permanent hitch or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a
permanent site, which does not have permanently attached to its body or frame
any wheels or axles, and which bears a label certifying that is was built to
compliance with National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards,
24 C.F.R. §§ 3280 et seq., promulgated by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development, or a modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS
71-1557 bearing the seal of the Department of Health.
      MEDICAL CLINIC. An organization of specializing physicians, or dentists,
or physical therapists, or chiropractors that have their offices in a common
building.
      MOBILE HOME. A year-round, transportable structure which is a single-
family dwelling unit suitable for permanent, more than 30 days living quarters,
more than eight feet wide and 40 feet in length designed and built to be towed
on its own chassis and designed to be used as a single-family dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
      NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION. The standards setting organization
for codes followed by these ordinances. In particular, CODE 58, regulating
propane and propane tank installation.
      NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A recorded lot, lawful at the time of the
enactment or amendment of this chapter which does not conform to the minimum
area, yard, or frontage requirements in the district in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any building or structure, which, at the time of
enactment or amendment of this chapter, was lawful, but currently:
         (a)   Either does not comply with all the regulations of this chapter
or with any amendment regarding tile zoning district in which such building or
structure is located; or
         (b)   Is designed or intended for a non-conforming use.
      NONCONFORMING USE. The use of a structure or parcel of land that was
legal at the time of adoption or amendment of these regulations but which does
not comply with the use regulation applicable to the zoning district in which
use is located.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in
size to store one automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or road, and permitting ingress and egress of an
automobile.
      PROPANE TANKS. Liquefied petroleum gas containers as specified by CODE 58
of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) for storage of LP gas. No
propane within the city limits shall be more than 500 gallons.
      RECYCLING CENTER. A facility which accepts salvage material limited to
paper, aluminum foil, containers made of glass, plastic, metal, aluminum, and
paper, and similar household wastes; no hazardous material as defined by state
and federal law is accepted; there is no wrecking or dismantling of salvage
material and no salvage material is held outside a building.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A collection point for small refuse items,
such as bottles and newspapers, located either in a container or small
structure.
      SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged metals,
building materials, paper, textiles, used plumbing fixtures, abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicles, or parts thereof, and other used materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, or cleaned; and places or yards for the
storage of salvaged metal, materials, and equipment; but not including pawn
shops and establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage of used cars or
trucks presently in operable condition, boats or trailers presently in operable
condition, and used furniture and household equipment in usable condition, and
not including the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged material as part
of manufacturing operations.
      SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the building or
structure and the related front, rear, or side lot line. See also YARD.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A grouping of retail business and service uses on a
single site with common parking facilities.
      SIDE YARD. See YARD, SIDE.
      SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area at a street or road intersection in which nothing
shall be erected, placed, painted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to
materially impede vision of traffic at an intersection as established within
these regulations.
      SIGN. Any fabricated sign or outdoor display structure, including its
structure, consisting of any letter, figure, character, logo, mark, point,
plane, marquee sign, design, poster, pictorial, picture, stroke, strip, line,
trademark, reading matter illumination device, constructed, attached, erected,
fastened, manufactured, or painted in any manner whatsoever so that the same
shall be used for the attraction of the public, performance, article, machine,
or merchandise whatsoever, and displayed in any manner cut of doors for
recognized advertising purposes, or any letter, figure, character, and the like
as set forth herein that is permanently painted on or adhered to any doors or
windows of building or structures. See also SIGN, BILLBOARD.
      SIGN, ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY. An enclosed, illuminated (backlit awning) or
non-illuminated structure that is attached to the wall of a building with the
face of the sign approximately parallel to the wall and with the sign’s copy
area integrated into its surface.
      SIGN AREA. The entire area including the background of a sign on which
copy can be placed but not including the minimal supporting framework or
bracing. The area of individually painted letter signs, individual letter
signs, or directly or indirectly illuminated individual letter signs shall be
calculated on the basis of the smallest geometric figure that will enclose the
entire copy area of the sign. Any such calculation shall include the areas
between the letters and lines, as well as the areas of any devices, illuminated
or non-illuminated.
      SIGN, AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE. See SIGN, ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY.
      SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign that identifies or communicates a commercial or
noncommercial message related to an activity conducted, a service rendered, or
a commodity sold at a location other than where the sign is located.
      SIGN, BUILDING. Any sign supported by, painted on, or otherwise attached
to any building or structure.
      SIGN, CLOSED. A sign in which more than 50% of the entire area is solid
or tightly closed or covered.
      SIGN, COPY AREA. All lettering, wording, and accompanying designs,
symbols, logos, and trademarks on a sign area.
      SIGN, DESTINATION. A sign used to inform and direct the public to
important public places and buildings, landmarks, and historical sites in the
most simple, direct, and concise manner possible.
      SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign that provides directional assistance to access
an establishment conveniently and safely.
      SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. A sign that uses changing lights to form
a sign message or messages wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of
change is electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic
processes.
      SIGN, FLASHING. A sign, which, by method or manner of illumination,
flashes on or off, winks, or blinks with varying light intensity, shows motion,
or creates the illusion of being on or off.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by uprights or braces placed on or
in the ground, which is used principally for advertising or identification
purposes and is not supported by any building.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial
light source.
      SIGN, LOW PROFILE. A sign mounted directly to the ground with a maximum
height not to exceed six feet.
      SIGN, MESSAGE. See SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD.
      SIGN, MONUMENT. See SIGN, LOW PROFILE.
      SIGN, OBSOLETE. A sign that advertises a business no longer in existence
or a product no longer offered for sale and has advertised such business or
product for a period of six months after the termination of the existence of
such business or the termination of sale of the product advertised.
      SIGN, OPEN. A sign attached to or hung from a marquee, canopy, or other
covered structure, projecting from and supported by the building and extending
beyond the building wall, building line, or street lot line.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign, usually of a temporary nature, not securely
anchored to the ground or to a building or structure and which obtains some or
all of its structural stability with respect to wind or other normally applied
forces by means of its geometry or character.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. A display sign which is attached directly to the
building wall, and which extends more than 15 inches from the face of the wall.
      SIGN, ROOF. A sign that is erected, constructed, and maintained above the
roof of the building.
      SIGN, SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the property line to the
nearest projection of the existing or proposed sign.
      SIGN, SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION. A sign erected on a subdivision
identification lot that identifies the platted subdivision where the sign is
located.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign constructed of cloth, fabric, or other material,
with or without a structural frame, intended for a limited period of display,
including displays for holidays or public demonstrations. TEMPORARY SIGNS shall
include portable signs as defined in this section.
      SIGN, WALL. A sign which is painted on or is directly attached to a fence
or on the surface of masonry, concrete, frame, or other approved building
walls, and which extends not more than 15 inches from the face of the fence or
wall.
      SIGN, WINDOW. A sign painted, stenciled, or affixed on a window, which is
visible from a right-of-way.
      SIMILAR USE. The use of land, building or buildings, or structures of
like kind or general nature with other uses within a zoning district as related
to bulk, intensity of use, traffic generation and congestion, function, public
services requirements, aesthetics, or other similarities.
      SITE PLAN. A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with
complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a site and the location of all
buildings, structures, uses, drives, parking, drainage, landscape features, and
other principal site development improvements for a specific parcel of land.
      SITE, SEPTIC. The area bounded by the dimensions required for the proper
location of the septic tank system.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A written permit issued with authorization of the
applicable governing body. The special permit provides permission under
specific conditions to make certain special uses of land in certain zoning
districts as stipulated under permitted special uses in each of the district
zoning regulations. The city may attach whatever conditions it deems necessary
to include, but not restricted to, proper setbacks, landscaping, screening,
fencing, maintenance, environmental and safety provisions, bonding
requirements, expiration or renewal dates, and other similar requirements.
      STORAGE. The keeping, in a roofed or unroofed area, any goods, junk,
material, merchandise, or vehicles on the same tract or premises for more than
30 days.
      STREET. All property acquired or dedicated to the public and accepted by
the appropriate governmental agencies for street purposes.
      STREET, CENTER LINE. A line midway between street lines.
      STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and
the contiguous street. The right-of-way line of a street.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, but not including public items, such as utility poles,
street light fixtures, street signs, bridges, and culverts.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change to the supporting members of a
structure including foundations, bearing walls, or partitions, columns, beams,
girders, or any structural change in the roof.
      TOWNHOUSE. One of a group or row of not less than two nor more than 12
attached, single-family dwellings designed and built as a single structure
facing upon a street in which the individual townhouse may or may not be owned
separately. For the purpose of the side yard regulations, the structure
containing the row or group of townhouses shall be considered as one building
occupying a single lot.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such VARIANCE
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property, and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship.
      YARD. An open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by
any structure or portion of a structure, provided, however, that fences, walls,
poles, posts, and other customary yard accessories, ornaments, and furniture
may be permitted in any yard subject to the district regulations.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending from the front lot line adjoining a public
street to the front of the building between side lot lines.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines and measured
horizontally at right angles to the rear lot line from the rear lot to the
nearest point of the main building.
      YARD, REQUIRED. The required minimum open space between the property line
and the yard line. The REQUIRED YARD shall contain no building or structure
other than the projection of the usual steps, or open porches, or as otherwise
provided in these regulations.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between a building and the side lot line measured
horizontally at right angles to the side lot line from the side lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person or persons authorized and empowered by
the governing body to administer the requirements of this chapter.
      ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The legally appointed county/municipal board
empowered to hear and decide appeals from, and to provide interpretations of,
the terms of the zoning ordinance and official maps as defined within this
chapter and in accordance with the laws of the state.
      ZONING DISTRICT. An area delineated on a zoning map for which uniform use
regulations are specified.
      ZONING MAP. A map or maps officially enacted by the governing body as
part of this chapter showing the boundaries of a zoning district or districts,
a copy or copies of which, certified to have been enacted as provided by law,
is filed in the office of the City Clerk as an official record of the city.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 721, passed 11-3-2021; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-
2022)
APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
§ 153.015 GENERAL.
   The zoning regulations set forth by this chapter within each district shall
be minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, except as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.016 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
moved, or structurally altered except in conformity with all of the zoning
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.017 YARD AND LOT REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced by private action in dimension or area below the minimum requirements
set herein. Lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet
the minimum requirements established by these regulations. Lots cannot be
reduced in size.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.018 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. Where applicable, municipal,
state, or federal standards that are more restrictive than those contained
herein, the more restrictive standards shall apply.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.019 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Intent. Nonconformities are of three types: nonconforming lots of
record, nonconforming structures, and nonconforming uses.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots of record. 
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may issue a permit for any nonconforming
lot of record provided that:
         (a)   Said lot is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time when the
creation of a lot of such size and width at such location would not have been
prohibited;
         (b)   Said lot has remained in separate and individual ownership from
adjoining tracts of land continuously during the entire time that the creation
of such lot has been prohibited by the zoning regulation; and
         (c)   Said lot can meet all required yard regulations for the district
in which it is located by relying upon compatibility standards and setback
averaging to achieve the desired protections.
      (2)   Setback averaging is allowed where existing front yard setbacks on
the same block are less than the district standard and will rely on the
following conditions:
         (a)   Existing setbacks on the same block face are averaged;
         (b)   Only lots with similar uses to that proposed are included in the
average;
         (c)   Vacant lots are included using the district setback; or
         (d)   Existing front yard setbacks can rely upon existing
nonconformities such that any addition or enlargement does not exceed the point
of nonconformity setback.
   (C)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Authority to continue. Any structure which is devoted to a use
which is permitted in the zoning district in which it is located, but which is
located on a lot which does not comply with the use regulations and/or the
applicable setback and height regulations may be continued, so long as it
remains otherwise lawful.
      (2)   Enlargement, repair, and alterations. Any nonconforming structure
may be maintained, repaired, or remodeled; provided, however, that no such
enlargement, maintenance, repair, or remodeling shall either create any
additional nonconformity or increase the degree of existing nonconformity of
all or any part of such structure. Setback averaging is allowed where existing
front yard setbacks on the same block are less than the district standard and
will rely on the following conditions:
         (a)   Existing setbacks on the same block face are averaged;
         (b)   Only lots with similar uses to that proposed are included in the
average;
         (c)   Vacant lots are included using the district setback; or
         (d)   Existing front yard setbacks can rely upon existing
nonconformities such that any addition or enlargement does not exceed the point
of nonconformity setback.
      (3)   Damage or destruction. In the event any nonconforming structure is
damaged or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than 75% of its
assessed fair market value, such structure shall not be restored unless it
shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which it
is located. When a structure is damaged to the extent of 75% or less of its
fair market value, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a building
permit is obtained within six months, and restoration is actually begun one
year after the date of such partial destruction and is diligently pursued to
completion.
      (4)   Moving. No nonconforming structure shall be moved, in whole or in
part, for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other
lot unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Authority to continue. Any lawfully existing nonconforming use of
part or all of a structure or any lawfully existing nonconforming use of land,
not involving a structure or only involving a structure which is accessory to
such use or land, may be continued, so long as otherwise lawful.
      (2)   Ordinary repair and maintenance.
         (a)   Normal maintenance and incidental repair, or replacement may be
performed on any structure or system that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use.
         (b)   Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a structure in accordance
with an order of a public official in charge of protecting the public safety
who declares such structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe
condition.
      (3)   Extension. A nonconforming use or structure shall not be extended,
enlarged which results in additional nonconformity, or increases the degree of
nonconformity.
      (4)   Enlargement. No use or structure that is devoted in whole or in
part to a nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless
such use of enlargement is allowed in the district and/or does not increase the
degree of nonconformity.
      (5)   Damage or destruction. In the event that any structure that is
devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by
any means, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a building permit is
obtained within six months and restoration is actually begun within one year
after the date of such partial destruction and is diligently pursued to
completion.
      (6)   Moving. No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use and nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in
part for any distance whatever, to any location on the same or any other lot,
unless the entire structure and the use thereof or the use of land shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located after being so moved.
      (7)   Change in use. If no external structural alterations are made which
will expand the area or change the dimensions of the existing structure, any
nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to
another nonconforming use provided that the governing body after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission, by making findings in the specific
case, shall find that the proposed use is more appropriate to the district than
the existing nonconforming use. More appropriate shall mean creating less
traffic, noise, glare, odor, or other characteristics of the proposed use. In
permitting such change, the governing body may require appropriate conditions
and safeguards to protect surrounding areas and properties. Once such use has
changed, it may no longer be returned to the original use or any other less
appropriate use.
      (8)   Abandonment or discontinuance. When a nonconforming use is
discontinued or abandoned, for a period of 12 consecutive months, such use
shall not thereafter be re-established or resumed, and any subsequent use or
occupancy of such land shall comply with the regulations of the zoning district
in which such land is located, unless an extension request is submitted to the
Planning Commission for its recommendation and forwarded for approval or denial
to the appropriate governing body.
      (9)   Nonconforming accessory uses. No use, which is accessory to a
principle nonconforming use, shall continue after such principal use shall
cease or terminate.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS
§ 153.035 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   It shall be a purpose of the Planning Commission to recommend the boundaries
of the various original districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced
therein. The Planning Commission shall make a preliminary report and hold
public hearings thereon before submitting its final report, and the governing
body shall not hold its public hearings or take action until it has received
the final report of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.036 DISTRICTS CREATED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, there are hereby created zoning districts,
as named and described in §§
153.050 through
153.057 of this chapter.
   (A)   AG Agricultural Residential District;
   (B)   R-1 Residential District;
   (C)   R-2 Residential District;
   (D)   R-3 Residential/Commercial District;
   (E)   C-1 Commercial Business District;
   (F)   C-2 Highway Commercial District; and
   (G)   I-1 Industrial District.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.037 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the district are shown upon maps, which are made a
part hereof by reference, which map(s) are designated as the City Zoning
District Map, dated 2014 and signed by the Mayor of the city and attested by
the City Clerk and hereinafter referred to as the “official zoning maps”.
   (B)   The signed copy of the zoning map(s) containing the zoning districts
designated at the time of adoption of this chapter shall be maintained in the
office of the City Administrator for the use and benefit of the public.
   (C)   If in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are made
in the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map
(s), such changes shall be entered on the appropriate part of the official
zoning map(s) promptly after the amendment has been approved by the governing
body, with an entry on the official zoning map(s) as follows:
“On  (date) , by official action of the City Council, the following change was
made in the official zoning map(s) (brief description of the nature of the
change), which entry shall be signed by the Mayor and attested by the City
Clerk”.
   (D)   No amendment to this chapter, which involves matter portrayed on the
official zoning map(s), shall become effective until after such change and
entry have been made on said map(s).
   (E)   No changes of any nature shall be made in the official zoning map(s)
or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in
this chapter.
   (F)   In the event that the official zoning map(s) become damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret, the City Council may, by ordinance,
adopt a new official zoning map(s) which shall supersede the prior official
zoning maps.
   (G)   The new official zoning map(s) may correct drafting or other errors or
omissions in the prior official zoning map(s), but no such correction shall
have the effect of amending the original official zoning map(s) or any
subsequent amendment thereof.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.038 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The following rules shall apply to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the official zoning map(s):
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines;
   (B)   Boundaries indicated, as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines;
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following such city limits;
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks;
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extension of features indicated
in divisions (A) through (D) above shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the official zoning map(s) shall be determined by the
scale of the map; and
   (F)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map(s), or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Board of
Zoning Adjustment shall interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.050 AG AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide for agricultural and low-
density, acreage residential development in selected areas adjacent or in close
proximity to the corporate limits of the city. Generally, these districts are
located near urban and built-up areas within reasonable reach of fire
protection and hard surfaced roads.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, excluding the expansion of existing or
development of new intensive livestock facilities operations/feedlots;
      (2)   (a)   Any farm or acreage within the following animal to acre
ratio: one animal unit (AU) per acre for a parcel less than 40 acres.
         (b)   One animal unit shall equal one head of slaughter or feeder
cattle, seven-tenths head of mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows),
two and five-tenths swine each weighing over 55 pounds, 25 weaned pigs each
weighing less than 55 pounds, five-tenths head of horses, ten sheep or lambs,
50 turkeys, 100 laying hens or broilers if the facility has continuous overflow
watering, 30 laying hens or broilers if the facility has a liquid manure
system, and/or five ducks.
      (3)   Single-family dwelling;
      (4)   Irrigation and flood control projects;
      (5)   Child care home;
      (6)   Public parks and recreational areas;
      (7)   Community buildings and/or facilities owned and/or occupied by
public agencies;
      (8)   Public and/or private schools;
      (9)    Churches, places of worship and cemeteries
      (10)   Fish hatcheries and facilities; and
      (11)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to the permitted
uses and structures;
      (2)   Home occupations in conformance with §
153.101 of this chapter;
      (3)   Residences including mobile homes for farm residence or adjacent
farm residence for relatives of consanguinity and marriage or farm workers;
      (4)   Roadside stands for sale of agricultural produce; and
      (5)   Temporary buildings incidental to construction work where such
buildings or structures are removed upon completion of work.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. 
      (1)   A building or premises may be used for the following purposes in
the AG Agricultural Residential District if a special use permit for such use
has been obtained in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter:
         (a)   Airports and heliports, including crop dusting;
         (b)   Agricultural service establishments primarily engaged in
performing agricultural, animal husbandry, or horticultural services;
         (c)   Child care center;
         (d)   Radio and television towers and transmitter;
         (e)   Camp grounds;
         (f)   Wind generating systems;
         (g)   Kennels;
         (h)   Public and private charitable institutions;
         (i)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
         (j)   Animal clinics, animal hospitals, and veterinarian services;
         (k)   Auction/ sale barns and yards;
         (l)   Waste water treatment facilities; and
         (m)   Any farm or acreage within the following animal to acre ratio:
            1.   One and one-half AU per acre for a parcel of land greater than
40 acres, but less than 80 acres; or
            2.    Two AU per acre for parcels over 80 acres; and
         (n)   Commercial kennels.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions above, any time the number or
combination of animal units (AU) exceeds 250, regardless of the size of the
parcel of land, the operation shall be considered a LFO (large farming
operation) and is a prohibited use in the AG Zoning District.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structure which are
not specifically permitted or not permissible as exceptions shall be prohibited
from the AG Agricultural Residential District.
   (F)   Minimum area requirements.
      (1)   General requirements.
 
           Lot Area Lot   Required Required  Required
           (Sq.     Width Front    Side Yard Rear Yard Height
           Ft.)           Yard
If septic                                              35’ for residential
system     100,000  150’35’    20’     35’     structures
used
If lagoon                                              35’ for residential
system     120,000  150’35’    20’     35’     structures
used
If city                                                35’ for residential
sewer      50,000   150’35’    20’     35’     structures
connection
 
      (2)   Maximum height. The maximum height for residential structures is 35
feet; however, non-residential structures shall have no height limitations
except in conformance with airport zoning regulations.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking shall be in conformance with the
provisions of §§
153.085 through
153.087 of this chapter.
   (H)   Intersections. No buildings, or any earlier structure shall be
permitted within 200 feet of the center of an intersection of any public
street, road, or highway.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 685, passed 1-3-2018; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-
2022)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.051 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide for low-density
residential uses consisting of single-family dwelling units and accessory
structures.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Nursery, primary, and secondary education;
      (3)   Public parks, buildings, and grounds;
      (4)   Child care homes;
      (5)    Public uses, including but not limited to public parks,
playgrounds, recreational uses, fire stations, public elementary and high
schools, public utilities, and utility distribution systems;
      (6)   Places of worship, such as churches and synagogues; and
      (7)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE is defined as a building or use that
exhibits the following:
         (a)   Constructed or located on the same lot as the principal building
or use served, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this
chapter;
         (b)   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in purpose and area to, and
serves the principal use; and
         (c)   R-1 approved dwelling structure must exist prior to accessory
building construction.
      (2)   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted:
         (a)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.101 of this chapter; and
         (b)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to permitted
uses and structures, provided that:
            1.   Collectively, the area(s):
               a.   Occupied by all existing and proposed structures do not
exceed 33% of the entire lot area; and
               b.    Of all accessory structures shall not exceed 1,064 square
feet or 7% of the lot area up to 2,500 square feet, whichever is greater.
               c.   The side wall height of an accessory structure does not
exceed 11 feet, measured from the lowest door threshold to baseline roof
height. Accessory structures with a side wall height in excess of ten feet may
be approved by application for special use permit in accordance with this
chapter.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purpose in the R-1 Residential District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter. The permitted special uses are:
      (1)   Medical clinics;
      (2)   Mortuaries;
      (3)   Child care center;
      (4)   Expansion of nonconforming uses;
      (5)   Museum and art galleries;
      (6)   Nursing homes;
      (7)   Public and private golf courses;
      (8)   Retirement homes;
      (9)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (10)   Townhouses;
      (11)    Hospitals;
      (12)   Private garages not used for business or commercial uses; and
      (13)   Community gardens.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures that are
not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-1 Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
              Lot Area Lot Width Required   Required Side Required Rear Height
              Square             Front Yard Yard          Yard
Single-family 10,500   75’     25’      5’          30’         35’
dwelling
Other
permitted     10,000   75’     25’      5’          30’         35’
uses
 
      (1)   There shall be a required front yard setback of 25 feet on each
street side of a double frontage lot.
      (2)   Buildings on corner lots shall provide front yard setbacks of 25
feet on one street side and 15 feet on the other front yard, and designate
remaining yards as one rear and one side yard.
      (3)   The side yard setback between individual units of two-family
dwellings may be reduced to zero, if a one-hour fire rated constructed common
wall between units starting at the basement level and continuing through to the
roof line is maintained.
      (4)   Building and structures shall not exceed 35 feet in height.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-1 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
153.085 through
153.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 693, passed 10-3-2018; Ord. 710, passed 2-3-
2021; Ord. 726, passed 6-1-2022; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-2022)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.052 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this District to provide for medium
density residential uses and development of residential dwellings.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings;
      (4)   Child care homes;
      (5)   Community buildings;
      (6)    Public uses, including, but not limited to public parks,
playgrounds, recreational uses, fire stations, public elementary and high
schools, public utilities, and utility distribution systems;
      (7)   Places of worship, such as churches and synagogues; and
      (8)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE is defined as a building or use that
exhibits the following:
         (a)   Constructed or located on the same lot as the principal building
or use served, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this
chapter;
         (b)   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in purpose and area to, and
serves the principal use; and
         (c)   R-2 approved dwelling structure must exist prior to accessory
building construction.
      (2)   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted:
         (a)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.101 of this chapter; and
         (b)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to permitted
uses and structures, provided that:
            1.   Collectively, the area(s) occupied:
               a.    By all existing and proposed structures do not exceed 33%
of the entire lot area; and
               b.   By all accessory structures do not exceed 1,064 square feet
or 7% of the lot area up to 2,500 square feet, whichever is greater.
            2.   The side wall height of an accessory structure does not exceed
11 feet, measured from lowest door threshold to baseline roof height (accessory
structures with a side wall height in excess of ten feet may be approved by
application for special use permit in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter).
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the R-2 Residential District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071
1 of this chapter:
      (1)   Child care center;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast homes;
      (3)   Communication and utility buildings and uses;
      (4)   Medical clinics;
      (5)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (6)   Clubs, fraternities, lodges, and meeting places of a non-commercial
nature;
      (7)   Retirement and/or nursing homes;
      (8)   Public and/or private golf courses; and
      (9)   Camp grounds.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures, which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses, shall be
prohibited from the R-2 Residential District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
          Lot              Required                            Required
          Area   Lot Width Front    Required                   Rear     Height
          (Sq.             Yard     Side Yard                  Yard
          Ft.)
Single-
family    7,000  50’     25’    5’                       15’    35’
dwelling
Two-      3,500  25’ per          5’ or 7-1/2’ on corner
family    per    family    25’    lots                       15’    45’
dwelling  family
Multi-    2,200  50’ per          5’ or 7-1/2’ on corner
family    per    family    25’    lots                       15’    45’
housing   family
Other
permitted 7, 000 50’     25’    5’                       15’    35’
uses
 
      (1)   There shall be a required front yard setback of 25 feet on each
street side of a double frontage lot.
      (2)   Buildings on corner lots with a width less than 50 feet shall
provide a second frontage on the street side of not less than seven feet,
provided that the buildable width need not be reduced to less than 28 feet,
yards remaining shall be designated side yards each with a minimum depth of
three feet.
      (3)   Building on corner lots with a width of 50 feet or greater shall
provide a second frontage on the street side of not less than 15 feet, yards
remaining shall be designated side yards with a minimum depth of five feet.
      (4)   Building and structures shall not exceed three stories in height.
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-2 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 690, passed 7-11-2018; Ord. 693, passed 10-3-
2018; Ord. 726, passed 6-1-2022; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-2022)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.053 R-3 RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide for medium density
residential uses and limited commercial services.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses are permitted in the R-
3 Residential/Commercial District.
      (1)   Automobile sales;
      (2)   Automobile wash facilities;
      (3)   Churches and other religious institutions;
      (4)   Construction sales and services;
      (5)   Commercial operations and businesses, intended for the purpose of
servicing travel and recreational users;
      (6)   Commercial recreational facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses, and similar uses);
      (7)   Detached banking facilities (ATM);
      (8)   Electric and telephone substations;
      (9)   Farm implement sales and services;
      (10)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (11)   Irrigation equipment sales and services;
      (12)    Mini warehouses;
      (13)   Motels, including accessory service uses, such as swimming pools,
liquor stores, and restaurants; and
      (14)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE is defined as a building or use that
exhibits the following:
         (a)   Constructed or located on the same lot as the principal building
or use served, except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this
chapter;
         (b)   Clearly incidental to, subordinate in purpose and area to, and
serves the principal use; and
         (c)   R-3 approved dwelling structure must exist prior to accessory
building construction.
      (2)   The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted:
         (a)   Buildings and uses customarily incidental to the permitted uses;
         (b)   Home occupation in accordance with §
153.101;
         (c)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to permitted
uses and structures, provided that:
            1.   Collectively the area(s) occupied:
               a.   By all existing and proposed structures do not exceed 33%
of the entire lot area; and
               b.   Collectively the area of all accessory structures shall not
exceed 1,064 square feet or 7% of the lot area up to 2,500 square feet,
whichever is greater.
            2.   The side wall height of an accessory structure does not exceed
11 feet, measured from lowest door threshold to baseline roof height. Accessory
structures with a side wall height in excess of ten feet may be approved by
application for special use permit in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071); and
         (d)   Off-street parking.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the R-3 Residential/Commercial District if a special use
permit for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter.
      (1)   Mobile home court;
      (2)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (3)   Facilities for the commercial storage or sale of fertilizer or
toxic or flammable chemicals;
      (4)   Radio studios, transmitters, and antenna;
      (5)   Recycling centers;
      (6)   Mobiles homes sales; and
      (7)   Mobile homes for residential use.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures that are
not specifically permitted or not permissible as special uses shall be
prohibited from the R-3 Residential District.
   (F)   Area and lot requirements.
      (1)   A mobile home court shall have an area of not less than five acres.
No mobile homes shall be located within 50 feet of the principal street on
which the court has frontage. The setback on all other court property lines
shall be 25 feet. These areas shall be landscaped.
      (2)   Each lot provided for occupancy of a single mobile home shall have
an area of not less than 4,000 square feet and a width of not less than 40
feet. Each individual lot shall have:
         (a)   Side yards which total not less than 20 feet provided one side
yard shall not be less than five feet;
         (b)   Front yard of not less than 25 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard of not less than five feet.
      (3)    There shall be a minimum livable floor area of 500 square feet in
each mobile home.
 
          Lot Area Lot    Required                            Required
          (sq.     Width  Front    RequiredSide Yard          Rear Yard Height
          ft.)            Yard
Single
family    7,000    50 ft. 25 ft.   5 ft.                      15 ft.    35 ft.
dwelling
Two       3,500    25 ft.          5 ft. or 7½ ft. on corner
family    per      per    25 ft.   lots                       15 ft.    45 ft.
dwelling  family   family
Multi-    2,200    50 ft.          5 ft. or 7½ ft. on corner
famil y   per      per    25 ft.   lots                       15 ft.    45 ft.
housing   family   family
Other
permitted 7,000    50 ft. 25 ft.   5 ft.                      15 ft.    35 ft.
uses
 
   (G)   Community facilities.
      (1)   Community water and community sewage disposal facilities shall be
provided with connections to each lot in accordance with this subchapter. The
water supply shall be sufficient for domestic use and for fire protection.
      (2)   Service buildings including adequate laundry and drying facilities,
and toilet facilities for a mobile home which do not have these facilities
within each unit.
      (3)   Not less than 8% of the total court area shall be designated and
used for park or playground and recreational purposes.
   (H)   Plan requirements. A complete plan of the mobile home court shall be
submitted showing:
      (1)   A development plan and grading plan of the court;
      (2)   The area dimensions of the tract of land;
      (3)   The number, location, and size of all mobile home spaces;
      (4)   The area and dimensions of the park, playground, and recreation
areas;
      (5)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
      (6)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
      (7)   The location of water and sewer lines and sewage disposal
facilities; and
      (8)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home court.
   (I)   Use limitations. Each mobile home park shall be designed in accordance
with the following minimum design standards.
      (1)   Minimum design standards.
         (a)   The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage, and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
         (b)   Mobile home parks hereafter approved shall have a maximum
density of seven mobile homes per gross acre, and minimum area of 4,000 square
feet shall be provided for each mobile home space.
         (c)   Each mobile home space shall be at least 40 feet wide at the
front setback line and clearly defined.
         (d)   Mobile homes shall be located on each space so as to maintain a
setback of no less than 25 feet from any public street, highway right-of-way,
or R-2 District boundary; as to maintain a setback of no less than 20 feet from
the edge of a park roadway or sidewalk; as to maintain a setback of no less
than 15 feet from a rear boundary line that is not common to any public street,
highway right-of-way, or R-2 District boundary; and as to maintain a setback of
no less than five feet from any side boundary line of a mobile home space.
         (e)   All mobile homes shall be so located to maintain a clearance of
not less than 20 feet from another mobile home and as to maintain a clearance
of not less than 15 feet between any mobile home and any appurtenance to a
mobile home. No mobile home shall be located closer than 20 feet from any
building within the park.
         (f)   Mobile home spaces when front upon a private roadway shall not
be of less than 24 feet in width, including curbs, if required; provided,
however, that no on-street parking is permitted. Parallel parking is permitted
on one side of the street; the width shall be increased to 36 feet. All
roadways shall have unobstructed access to a public street.
         (g)   Common walks shall be provided in locations where pedestrian
traffic is concentrated; for example, to the entrance and to the office and
other important facilities;
         (h)   All roadways and sidewalks within the mobile home park shall be
constructed in accordance with city standards and shall be adequately lighted
at night. A street must be completely constructed prior to the occupancy of any
mobile home space fronting on said street.
         (i)   A community building may be provided which may include
recreation.
         (j)   A storm shelter or an approved evacuation plan to a designated
storm shelter shall be provided.
         (k)   A landscape buffer may be required to provide screening for the
park.
      (2)   Tie-downs and ground anchors. All mobile homes shall be secured to
the ground by tie-downs and ground anchors in accordance with industry
standards.
      (3)   Blocking. All mobile homes shall be blocked at a maximum of ten-
foot centers around the perimeter of each mobile home, and this blocking shall
provide 16 inches bearing upon the stand.
      (4)   Pad requirements. Pads shall be a flexible surface with a minimum
of five-inch thick gravel, stone, or compacted surface, treated to discourage
plant growth, constructed to discharge water, and edged to prohibit fraying or
spreading of surfacing materials, or shall be a hard surface of a minimum of
two 18-inch wide concrete ribbons or slabs capable of carrying the weight and
of sufficient length to support all blocking points of the mobile home.
      (5)   Fire safety standards. When liquefied petroleum gas is used in a
mobile home park, containers for such gas shall not hold more than 500-gallon
water capacity, shall be the liquefied petroleum gas containers approved by the
United States Commerce Commission for its intended purpose, and shall be
attached to the mobile home in a manner approved by the Liquefied Petroleum Gas
Association.
      (6)   Skirting. Each mobile home shall be skirted within 30 days after
placement in the park by enclosing the open area under the unit with a material
that is compatible with the exterior finish of the mobile home.
   (J)   Parking regulations. Parking within the R-3 Residential District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
153.085 through
153.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 726, passed 6-1-2022; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-
2022)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.054 C-1 COMMERCIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is designed to provide for a wide range of
retail, office, amusement, and service uses normally found in a central
business district. Highest density and intensity of use are permitted in this
district.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Apartments on floors other than ground floor;
      (2)   Automobile parts, supplies and services;
      (3)   Building materials (retail);
      (4)   Bakery;
      (5)   Banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, and finance
companies;
      (6)   Barbershops, beauty parlors, and shoeshine shops;
      (7)   Business offices;
      (8)   Child care homes and centers;
      (9)   Detached banking facilities (ATM);
      (10)   Chiropractors, optometrists, dentists, physicians, and other
similar health related services;
      (11)   Dry cleaning or laundry establishments;
      (12)   Food service, restaurants, and taverns;
      (13)   Food storage lockers;
      (14)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (15)   Garden centers;
      (16)   Postal, mailing services, and related services;
      (17)   Gift, stationary, china, and related retails;
      (18)   Museums and art galleries;
      (19)   Nursery, primary, and secondary education;
      (20)   Office buildings;
      (21)   Parking lots, parking garages, and other off-street parking
facilities;
      (22)   Personal and professional services;
      (23)   Photography studios;
      (24)   Private schools, including but not limited to business or
commercial schools, and dance or music academies;
      (25)   Public and private charitable institutions;
      (26)   Public parks, buildings, and grounds;
      (27)   Public uses of an administrative, public service, or cultural
type, including city, county, state, or federal administrative centers and
courts, libraries, police and fire stations, and other public buildings,
structures, and facilities;
      (28)   Public utility facilities;
      (29)   Sales and showrooms, including service facilities and rental of
equipment, provided all displays and merchandise are within the enclosure walls
of the buildings;
      (30)   Service stations;
      (31)   Stores or shops for the sale of goods at retail and/or wholesale;
      (32)   Direct mail and telemarketing services;
      (33)   Electrical and gas retail household appliances and services;
      (34)   Employment services;
      (35)   Furniture retail, upholstery, and repair services;
      (36)   General hardware stores;
      (37)   Insurance and brokers services;
      (38)   Craft and jewelry making services and sales;
      (39)   Motion picture theatres;
      (40)   Newspapers publishing and printing;
      (41)   Recycling drop-off point;
      (42)   Household improvements retail;
      (43)   Sporting goods retail and services;
      (44)   Variety and discount stores retail;
      (45)    Wine, beer, alcoholic products, and related sales;
      (46)   Meat locker; and
      (47)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted:
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.101 of this chapter; and
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures normally appurtenant to permitted
uses and structures and to uses and structures permitted as special uses.
   (D)   Permitted conditional uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted when in conformance with the conditions prescribed herein:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings must comply with all provisions of the R-
2 Residential District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings must comply with all provisions of the R-
2 Residential District; and
      (3)   Multiple family dwellings must comply with all provisions of the R-
2 Residential District.
   (E)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises will be used for the
following purposes in the C-1 Commercial Business District if a special permit
for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast guest home;
      (2)    Recycling center;
      (3)   Communications/transmitting towers; and
      (4)   Commercial kennels.
   (F)   Prohibited uses and structures. 
      (1)   All other uses and structures that are not specifically permitted
or not permissible as special uses shall be prohibited from the C-1 Commercial
Business District.
      (2)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment, or materials
shall be used by the city to be objectionable to persons living or working in
the vicinity by reasons of odor, fumes, dust, smoke, cinders, dirt refuse,
noise, vibrations, illumination, glare, or unsightliness or to involve any
hazard of fire or explosion.
   (G)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   Where a site adjoins or is located across an alley from the
residential district; a solid wall or fence or compact evergreen hedge six feet
in height shall be required on the property line common to such districts,
except in a required front yard.
      (2)   Open storage of materials attendant to a permitted use or special
permit use shall be permitted only within an area surrounded or screened by a
solid wall or fence.
   (H)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows:
 
             Lot Area  Lot Width Required Front Required  Required Rear Height
             (Sq. Ft.)           Yard           Side Yard Yard
Permitted    3,000     25’     0              0         0             35’
uses
Special uses 3,000     25’     0              0         0             35’
 
   (I)   Parking regulations. Parking within the C-1 Commercial Business
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
153.085 through
153.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-2022)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.055 C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The C-2 Highway Commercial District is intended for the
purpose of servicing highway travelers and providing limited commercial
services. Off-street parking is required in order to reduce possible adverse
effects on adjacent properties.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Automobile sales;
      (2)   Automobile wash facilities;
      (3)   Churches and other religious institutions;
      (4)   Construction sales and services;
      (5)   Commercial operations and businesses, intended for the purpose of
servicing travel and recreational users;
      (6)   Commercial recreational facilities (bowling alleys, miniature golf
courses, and similar uses);
      (7)   Detached banking facilities (ATM);
      (8)   Electric and telephone substations;
      (9)   Farm implement sales and services;
      (10)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (11)   Irrigation equipment sales and services;
      (12)   Mini warehouses;
      (13)   Mobile homes sales;
      (14)   Motels, including accessory service uses, such as swimming pools,
liquor stores, and restaurants;
      (15)   Restaurants and cafes;
      (16)   Service stations;
      (17)   Single-family homes;
      (18)   Stores or shops for sale of goods at retail;
      (19)   Transportation warehousing;
      (20)   Trucks and freight terminals;
      (21)    Utilities, including shops and offices;
      (22)   Medical clinics; and
      (23)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses
and structures shall be permitted. Accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to the permitted uses and structures and to uses and structures
permitted as special uses.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the C- 2 Highway Commercial District if a special use
permit for such use has been obtained in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter.
      (1)   Private clubs and lodges;
      (2)   Facilities for the commercial storage or sale of fertilizer or
toxic or flammable chemicals;
      (3)   Radio studios, transmitters, and antenna; and
      (4)    Recycling centers;
      (5)   RV park/campground; and
      (6)   Commercial kennels.
   (E)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   Where a site adjoins or is located across an alley from the
residential district, a solid wall or fence or compact evergreen hedge six feet
in height will be required on the property line common to such districts,
except in a required front yard.
      (2)   Open storage of materials attendant to a permitted use or special
permit use shall be permitted only within an area surrounded or screened by a
solid wall or fence.
   (F)   Prohibited uses. All other uses and structures which are not
specifically permitted or permissible as special uses shall be prohibited from
the C-2 Highway Commercial District.
   (G)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
 
          Lot Area Lot   Required Required Required
          (Sq.     Width Front    Side     Rear Yard                        Height
          Ft.)           Yard     Yard
Permitted 10,000   None  25’    5’     5’ when abutting a residential 35’
uses                                       district
          Subject
Special   to City  None  25’    5’     5’ when abutting a residential 35’
uses      Council                          district
          approval
 
   (H)   Parking regulations. Parking within the C-2 Highway Commercial
District shall be in conformance with the provisions of §§
153.085 through
153.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 726, passed 6-1-2022; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-
2022)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.056 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. This District is designed to provide for a wide range of
industrial and related uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses and structures. The following shall be
permitted as uses by right:
      (1)   Agriculture, excluding the expansion of existing or development of
intensive livestock facilities/operations;
      (2)   Animal care;
      (3)   Automobile sales and services;
      (4)   Automotive wash facilities;
      (5)   Bottling works;
      (6)   Building material sales, except for ready-mix concrete plants and
similar uses which emit particulate, odor, or smoke;
      (7)   Carpenter, cabinet, plumbing, or sheet metal shops;
      (8)   Grain storage;
      (9)   Construction sales and services;
      (10)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plants;
      (11)   Farm implementation sales and services;
      (12)   Farm produce sales;
      (13)   Food service, restaurants, and taverns;
      (14)   Freight and truck terminals;
      (15)   Frozen food lockers;
      (16)   Furniture warehouses;
      (17)   Garden centers and nurseries;
      (18)   Groceries, retail and wholesale;
      (19)   Manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment of
articles or merchandise from previously prepared materials;
      (20)   Manufacture of light sheet metal products including heating and
ventilation equipment;
      (21)   Machinery sales and storage lots;
      (22)   Mobile and modular home sales and manufacturing;
      (23)   Newspaper publishing plants;
      (24)   Public and quasi-public uses of an educational, recreational, or
religious type, including public and parochial elementary schools and junior
high schools, high schools; private non-profit schools, churches, parsonages,
and other religious institutions; parks and playgrounds;
      (25)   Public utility and public service uses;
      (26)   Self-storage units;
      (27)   Stone and monument works;
      (28)   Transportation warehousing;
      (29)   Warehouse or storage houses;
      (30)    Wholesale sales and services;
      (31)   Fertilizer plants; and
      (32)   Private kennels.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures normally
appurtenant to permitted uses and structures.
   (D)   Permitted special uses. A building or premises may be used for the
following purposes in the I-1 Industrial District if a special permit for such
use has been obtained in accordance with §§
153.070 and
153.071 of this chapter.
      (1)   Recycling center;
      (2)    Ethanol and/or alcohol plants;
      (3)   Communication/transmitting towers; and
      (4)   Commercial kennels.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures which
are not specifically permitted or not permissible, as special uses shall be
prohibited from the I-1 Industrial District.
   (F)   Height and area regulations. The maximum height and minimum area
regulations shall be as follows.
 
          Lot        Required                                           Required
          Area Lot   Front    Required                                  Rear     Height
          (Sq. Width Yard     Side Yard                                 Yard
          Ft.)
Permitted None 50’ 35’    0’ or 10’ when abutting a residential 45’    35’
uses                          district
 
   (G)   Parking regulations. Parking within the I-1 Industrial District shall
be in conformance with the provisions of §§
153.085 through
153.087 of this chapter.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 731, passed 9-7-2022)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.057 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY.
   (A)   Intent. This is an overlay district placed over any zoning district
within a designated flood area. It is the purpose of this section to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize losses due to
flood hazards by applying the provisions of this section to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands that are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard; and
      (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lands to which section applies. This section shall apply to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the city identified on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) as numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO, and AH
Zones) and within the Zoning Districts FW and FF established in division (D)
below or by a floodplain study prepared by FEMA and the Nebraska Natural
Resources Commission. In all areas covered by this section, no development
shall be permitted except upon the issuance of a floodplain permit to develop
under such safeguards and restrictions as the city may reasonably impose for
the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare, health of the inhabitants
of the community, and where specifically noted in divisions (E), (F), and (G)
below.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator. The Mayor and City Council shall
designate a person as the Zoning Administrator under this section.
      (3)   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries. The boundaries of
the Floodway and Flood Fringe Overlay Districts shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official zoning map or on the flood insurance rate map or
floodway map or on the floodplain study, prepared by FEMA and the Nebraska
Natural Resources Commission. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the official zoning
map, as for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions, the Zoning Administrator shall make the
necessary interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested,
the Board of Adjustment will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood
elevation for the point in question shall be the governing factor in locating
the district boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the
district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case
to the Board of Adjustment and to submit their own technical evidence, if they
so desire.
      (4)   Compliance. Within the identified special flood hazard areas of
this community, no development shall be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this section and
other applicable regulations.
      (5)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions,
the provision of this section shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
      (6)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application, the
provisions of this section shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      (7)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be increased by humanmade or
natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This
section does not imply that areas outside Floodway and Flood Fringe District
boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be free from
flooding or flood damage. This section shall not create liability on the part
of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may
result from reliance on this section or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
      (8)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
      (9)   Appeal. Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is
denied by the Zoning Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit or
variance directly to the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Development permit.
      (1)   Permit required. No person, firm, or corporation shall initiate any
floodplain development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate permit for development as required in these
regulations.
      (2)   Administration. The Zoning Administrator shall administer and
implement the provisions of this section. Duties of the Zoning Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites
are reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this
chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
         (c)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Natural Resources
Commission prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
         (d)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (e)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas;
         (f)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been flood proofed; and
         (g)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Zoning Administrator shall be presented with a certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
      (3)   Application for permit. To obtain a floodplain development permit,
the applicant shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished
for that purpose. Every such application shall:
         (a)   Identify and describe development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit;
         (b)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
done by lot, block, tract, and house and street address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
         (c)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended;
         (d)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
         (e)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who
may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority; and
         (f)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Establishment of zoning districts. Along watercourses where a floodway
has been established, the mapped floodplain areas are hereby divided into the
two following districts: Floodway Overlay District (FW) and Flood Fringe
Overlay District (FF), as identified as the 100-year flood outline or floodway,
on the floodplain map(s). Within these districts, all uses not meeting the
standards of this section and those standards of the underlying zoning district
shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Standards for floodplain development.
      (1)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development(s), including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered A zones including AE, AO,
and AH zones, or the 100-year floodplain, unless the conditions of this section
are satisfied.
      (2)   All areas identified as unnumbered A zones on the FIRM are subject
to inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A zones shall be subject to all development provisions
of the Flood Fringe Overlay District. If flood insurance study data is not
available, the community shall utilize any base flood elevation or floodway
data currently available from federal, state, and other sources.
      (3)   Within a floodway, no development or substantial improvement may be
permitted unless the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development
or substantial improvement, when combined with all other existing and
reasonably anticipated developments or substantial improvements, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any location.
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities shall be elevated or flood
proofed up to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (5)   Storage of material and equipment:
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of
flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be in injurious to human,
animal, or plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
      (6)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall be required to assure that all
such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage; all
public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage, that adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivision) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser
include within such proposals the base flood elevations.
   (F)   FF Flood Fringe Overlay District, including AO and AH Zones.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in the Floodway Overlay District
shall be permitted in the Flood Fringe Overlay District. No use shall be
permitted in the District unless the standards for floodplain development are
met.
      (2)   Standards for the Flood Fringe Overlay District. The following
standards shall be met:
         (a)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above one-foot above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of non-
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above one-foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, to be flood proofed so that below that level
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Zoning
Administrator as set forth in division (C)(2) above;
         (c)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements
that fully-enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement, and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria: a minimum of two openings having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be not
higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters;
         (d)   Within AH zones, adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from
proposed structures.
         (e)   Manufactured homes:
            1.   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
               a.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners
of the manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
               b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 60 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
               c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of
carrying a force of 4,800 pounds; and
               d.   Any additions to the manufactured home are similarly
anchored.
            2.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s
FIRM on sites:
               a.   Outside of manufactured home park or subdivision;
               b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
               c.   In a subdivision to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
               d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above one-foot above the base flood elevation; and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance
with the provisions of division (F)(2)(e)1.a. above.
            3.   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of division (F)(2)(e)1.b. above be elevated so that either:
               a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above
one-foot above the base flood elevation; or
               b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no
less than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of
division (F)(2)(e)1.a. above.
         (f)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood
hazard areas on the community’s official map shall either be on the site for
fewer than 180 consecutive days; be fully licensed and ready for highway use;
or meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring requirements
for manufactured homes of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
         (g)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.005 of this chapter are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply
within AO Zones:
            1.   All new construction and substantial improvements of
residential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as one-foot above
the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet
if no depth number is specified).
            2.   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
               a.   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as one-foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
               b.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
completely flood proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of buoyancy. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in division (C)(2) above.
            3.   Adequate drainage paths mound structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      (3)   Minimum standards governing location of obstructions and
substantial improvements in the floodplains for the base flood. The following
minimum standards shall apply when an obstruction is to be located or
substantially improved within the floodplain of a base flood. In the event of a
conflict between the following minimum standards and those in the standards for
floodplain development section.
         (a)   Appurtenant structures used exclusively for storage of motor
vehicles, and storage of other items readily removable in the event of a flood
warning may have their lowest floor below one foot above the base flood
elevation, provided the structure is capable of withstanding hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic forces caused by the base flood, and provided that no utilities
are installed in the structure except elevated or flood proofed electrical
fixtures.
         (b)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (G)   FW Floodway Overlay District.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Only uses having a low flood damage potential and
not obstructing flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway District to
the extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance. The following
are recommended uses for the Floodway District:
         (a)   Agricultural uses, such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
and forestry;
         (b)   Residential uses, such as lawns, gardens, parking, and play
areas;
         (c)   Non-residential areas, such as loading areas, parking, and
airport landing strips; and
         (d)   Public and private recreational use, such as golf courses,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife, and nature preserves.
      (2)   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District. New structures for
human habitation are prohibited. All encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, and other development must be
prohibited unless certification by a registered professional engineer or
architect is provided demonstrating that the development shall not result in
any increase in water surface elevations along the floodway profile during
occurrence of the base flood discharge. These uses are subject to the standards
in divisions (E) and (F) above. In Zone A unnumbered, obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any flood elevation and floodway data available through
federal, state, and other sources, or from base flood elevations included in
development proposals, in meeting the standards of this section.
   (H)   General provisions of the Floodplain FF and FW Overlay Districts.
      (1)   Variance procedures.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment, as herein established by the city,
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements
of this section.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
section.
         (c)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment
may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS 19-912.
         (d)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, and standards
specified in this section:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (2)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (H)(2)(b) through (H)(2)(e)
below have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
         (b)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional
threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws
or ordinances.
         (e)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given a
written notice that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the
increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (3)   Nonconforming use.
         (a)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was
lawful before the passage or amendment of the ordinance, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the
following conditions:
            1.   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
            2.   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall
not be entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
         (b)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this section. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations, or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
      (4)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions,
the provision of this section shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
      (5)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this section shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal, of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      (6)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be increased by humanmade or
natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This
section does not imply that areas outside floodplain district boundaries or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damage. This section shall not create liability on the part of city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance
on this section or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
      (7)   Separability. If a court of competent jurisdiction adjudges any
section, clause, provision, or portion of this section unconstitutional or
invalid, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
      (8)   Conflicting ordinances. This section shall take precedence over
conflicting ordinances or parts of ordinances. The governing body of the city
may, from time to time, amend this section to reflect any and all changes in
the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et
seq. The regulations of this section are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in C.F.R. Title 44 and the 1983
Nebraska Floodplain Management laws found in Article 10, Chapter 31 at Neb. RS
31-1001 to 31-1023.
      (9)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having 1% chance of annual
occurrence and is referred to as flood fringe.
         APPEAL. A request for a review of the Zoning Administrator
interpretation of any provision of this section or a request for a variance.
         APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure.
         AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding
to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by pending or sheet flow.
         BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
         BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
         DEVELOPMENT. Any humanmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials.
         EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining rates,
structures for which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced before the effective
date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRM’s effective before that
date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as an “existing structure”.
         EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the
lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community,
         EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of these floodplain management regulations.
         FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or
tidal water, or the usual and rapid accumulation of run-off of surface waters
from any source.
         FLOOD FRINGE. The area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway,
that on the average is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (such as, that
has a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year).
         FLOOD MAP. Floodplain study prepared by the Nebraska Natural Resources
Commission.
         FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on
which the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazards areas and
the risk premium applicable to the community.
         FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by he Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
flood boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
         FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural and non-structural
additions, changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
         FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source (see definition of FLOODING).
         FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than a designated height.
         FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood
level for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
         HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
         HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is listed individually in the
National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the Department of
Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic
district; individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or individually listed on a local inventory of historic places
in communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior; or directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
         LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this section.
         MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
         MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
         NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for
which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
         NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
         OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
         PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
         RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis;
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
         REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-
year flood.
         SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
         START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
         STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that
is principally above ground.
         SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition
would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
         SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This includes structures that have incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
         VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
         VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
SPECIAL USE PERMIT
§ 153.070 GENERAL.
   (A)   The City Council may authorize, by special permit, after public
hearing, any of the following buildings or uses designated in this chapter as
permitted special uses. Approval shall be based on findings that the location
and characteristics of the use will not be detrimental to the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the area.
   (B)   Allowable uses may be permitted, enlarged, or altered upon application
for a special use permit in accordance with the rules and procedures of this
chapter. The City Council may grant or deny a special use permit in accordance
with the intent and purpose of this chapter. In granting a special use permit,
the City Council will authorize the issuance of a special use permit and shall
prescribe and impose appropriate conditions, safeguards, and a specified time
limit for the performance of the special use permit.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.071 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A request for a special use permit or modification of a special use
permit may be initiated by a property owner or his or her authorized agent by
filing an application with the City Council upon forms prescribed for the
purpose. The application shall be accompanied by a drawing or site plan and
other such plans and data showing the dimensions, arrangements, descriptions,
data, and other materials constituting a record essential to an understanding
of the proposed use and proposed modifications in relation to the provisions
set forth herein. A plan as to the operation and maintenance of the proposed
use shall also be submitted.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by the full amount of the fee, as
established by the City Council in the schedule of fees.
   (C)   Before issuance of any special use permit, the City Council will
consider the application for the special use permit together with the
recommendations of the Planning Commission at a public hearing after prior
notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing has been given by
publication in a legal paper of general circulation in the city, one time at
least ten days prior to such hearing. In addition to the publication of the
notice herein prescribed, a notice, in sign form, of the hearing shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on or near the property on which such action is
pending. The sign shall be placed at least ten days prior to date of each
hearing.
   (D)   The concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the City Council
shall be necessary to grant a special use permit. No order of the City Council
granting a special use permit shall be valid for a period of longer than 12
months from the date of such order, unless the City Council specifically grants
a longer period of time upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no special use permit shall be
granted by the City Council, without an affirmative vote of a majority of all
members of the City Council and unless the proposed use is found to:
      (1)   Be compatible with and similar to the use permitted in the
district;
      (2)   Not be a matter, which should require rezoning of the property;
      (3)   Not be detrimental to adjacent property;
      (4)   Not tend to depreciate the value of the surrounding structures or
property;
      (5)   Be compatible with the stated intended use of the district;
      (6)   Not change the character of the district; and
      (7)   Be in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (F)   In case of protest against such special use permit, signed by the
owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed
change, or of those immediately adjacent on the side and in the rear thereof
extending 300 feet, therefrom, and of those directly opposite thereto extending
300 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such special use
permit shall not become effective except by the favorable vote of three-fourths
of all members of the City Council.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 153.085 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY.
   At intersections in all districts except AG Agricultural Residential and C-
1 Commercial Business District, continuous unobstructed sight distance shall be
provided for safe traffic operations. No obstructions, including fences,
hedges, walls, shrubbery, trees, or other humanmade or natural obstructions,
shall exist between a height of two and ten feet within the sight triangle. The
following diagram depicts “sight triangles” in which obstructions are
prohibited at all intersections including those with opened and maintained
alleys.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 705, passed 8-12-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.086 LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   In all districts, loading areas shall be provided so that all vehicles
loading, maneuvering, or unloading are completely off the public ways and so
that all vehicles need not back onto any public way.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.087 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Standard of measurement.
      (1)   The total area of all signs permitted on a lot shall include:
         (a)   The total area of the faces of all permanent exterior signs
visible from a public way; plus
         (b)   The area of permanent signs placed upon the surface of windows
and doors; plus
         (c)   The area within the outline enclosing the lettering, modeling,
or insignia of signs integral with the wall and not designed as a panel.
      (2)   A building or use having frontage on a second street may include
20% of the length of the lot facing the second street.
   (B)   Types of signs.
      (1)   Real estate. Not more than two signs per lot may be used as a
temporary sign no larger than six square feet each in area, except that a real
estate sign not over 12 square feet in area, set back at least 20 feet from the
road right-of-way or road easement boundary may be erected.
      (2)   Announcement. Small announcement or professional signs, not over
six square feet in area, except that an announcement sign or bulletin board not
over 18 square feet in area, set back at least 20 feet from any highway,
street, road, or roadway easement may be erected in connection with any of the
permitted principal uses of a non-residential nature.
      (3)   Wall. A sign flat against a building not exceeding in the aggregate
50 square feet in area.
      (4)   Name plate. One nameplate not exceeding two square feet for each
dwelling.
      (5)   Billboard. Billboards, signboards, and other similar advertising
signs subject to the same height and location requirements as other structures
in the district and also subject to the following conditions and restrictions.
         (a)   No billboard, signboard, or similar advertising signs shall be
located at intersections so as to obstruct vision, hearing, or interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular safety.
         (b)   No billboard, signboard, or similar advertising signs shall be
located within 100 feet of any lot in a residential district.
         (c)   No billboard, signboard, or similar advertising signs shall
exceed 700 square feet in area.
         (d)   No billboard, signboard, or similar advertising signs shall be
so constructed or located where it will unreasonably interfere with the use and
enjoyment of adjoining property.
      (6)   Ground. Ground signs at least five feet from any lot line with a
maximum height of ten feet.
      (7)   Projecting or pole. One freestanding or projecting sign for each
enterprise on the premises of not more than 100 square feet per sign face, at
no point closer to the front line or a side line than one-half of the required
building setback distance, and not exceeding 50 feet in height from the
established grade level. The lowest horizontal projecting feature of any post
or pole mounted sign shall be eight feet above the established grade level.
   (C)   Sign schedule. Signs shall be permitted in the various districts
according to the following schedule.
Zoning District AG R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 1-1 FF FW
Sign Type       Use Type
Zoning District    AG R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 1-1 FF FW
Sign Type          Use Type
Announcement       +  +   +   +   +   +   +   C  C
Billboard          C  -   -   -   C   C   +   -  -
Elevated           C  C   -   C   C   C   +   C  C
Name plate         +  +   +   +   +   +   +   C  C
Projection or pole -  -   -   -   +   +   +   -  -
Real estate        +  +   +   +   +   +   +   C  C
Wall               -  -   -   -   +   +   +   C  C
+    Permitted
-    Not permitted
C   Conditional Use    
 
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
ACCESSORY USES AND SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.100 ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   Buildings and structures may be erected and land may be used for purposes
that are clearly incidental to, and customarily and commonly associated with
the main permitted use of the premises. Such accessory buildings and uses shall
be so constructed, maintained, and conducted as to not produce noise,
vibration, concussion, dust, dirt, fly ash, odor, noxious gases, heat, or glare
which is injurious, damaging, unhealthful, or disturbing to adjacent property,
or the users thereof, and shall be on the premises of the main use.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.101 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   An occupation or activity carried on within the dwelling or accessory
building by a member of the family residing on the premises, which occupation
or activity is incidental and secondary to the residential occupancy and does
not change the residential character nor infringe upon the right of neighboring
residents to enjoy a peaceful occupancy of their homes.
   (B)   The following conditions and restrictions shall apply to such
customary home occupations.
      (1)   The primary use of the building or structure in which the
occupation is situated shall clearly be the dwelling used by the person as his
or her private residence;
      (2)   No assistant other than an immediate member of the family household
shall be employed, and signs and displays shall be limited to one non-
illuminated sign not exceeding one square foot in area;
      (3)   No equipment or machinery shall be used in such activities that are
perceptible off the premises by reason of noise, smoke, odor, dust, radiation,
electrical interference, or vibration. Parking shall be handled in such a
manner as to not impede or hinder traffic on any public right-of-way; or
      (4)   No product shall be sold or delivered (received by customers) at
wholesale or retail on the premises.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.102 FENCES.
   (A)   Fences may be erected to a height not to exceed six feet on any part
of a lot or premises other than the required front yard, provided, no fences
shall be erected within the triangular area required for sight distance of
vehicles entering or exiting the property or entering any adjacent
intersection. The height of a fence shall be determined by a measurement from
the ground beneath the fence to the top of the highest part of the fence.
Humanmade earth berms, terraces, and retaining walls that elevate the fence
shall be considered a part of the fence.
   (B)    All fences permitted to be erected shall comply with the following.
      (1)   All fences require approval of a permit prior to construction with
exception of temporary, seasonal (between October 1 and May 1) snow fences
which only require a one-time permit if dimensions and location are the same
those contained within a permit approved in a prior year and if all other fence
regulations are followed. Property lines and proposed fence placement must be
marked prior to submitting a request for permit approval.
      (2)   No fence shall be constructed, be of such a design, or improperly
maintained in any manner which creates or presents a hazardous condition to
persons or animals.
      (3)   For purposes of enclosing a swimming pool, a fence should be at
least six feet in height with a locking gate and may be erected up to eight
feet in height.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed in a designated floodway unless the
fence is elevated to or above the flood height, or adequate openings are
provided. Fencing and walls in designated floodplains require a floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner that would prohibit
access to utilities or utility meters.
   (C)   It is not intended that any structure other than a fence is permitted
on any part of a lot or premises by this section, and all other structures must
comply with these regulations.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 687, passed 5-2-2018; Ord. 750, passed 2-12-
2025)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.103 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Standards. All manufactured homes located outside mobile home parks
shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a non-reflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (B)   Existing covenants. Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to
supersede any valid restrictive covenants of record.
   (C)   Requirements. The home must meet Building Code requirements of the
National Manufactured Home Standards adopted by the city and shall be placed on
a permanent foundation as designated by the manufacturer.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.104 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, TRAILERS, OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No recreational vehicles, trailers, or equipment shall be used for
dwelling purposes on any lot except as may be authorized elsewhere.
   (B)   Such recreational vehicles, trailers, or equipment may be parked in
the required front or side yard setback on any lot only when the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The recreational vehicle, trailer, or equipment is parked on the
primary driveway or on an improved surface immediately adjoining the primary
driveway;
      (2)   No sidewalk is block or imposed upon; and
      (3)   No part of the recreational vehicle, trailer, or equipment is
within ten feet of a street edge.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 702, passed 2-5-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.105 SWIMMING POOLS/PUBLIC AND PRIVATE.
   All above or in-ground swimming pools 24 inches of depth and greater
constructed within the zoning jurisdiction shall meet the following standards:
   (A)   (1)   Be located at least five feet from the nearest property line.
      (2)   The walls of a private, residential, or family swimming pool shall
be located at least five feet from any lot line.
   (B)   (1)   All pools will be registered at City Hall, before the initial
work is commenced on the construction of a private, residential, or family
pool, an application for a permit from the city is required. In-ground pool
construction plans shall be accompanied by one set of construction drawings,
one plot plan, and one surveyor certificate for examination and approval in
accordance with the provisions of this code.
      (2)   The in-ground construction drawings and permit for a private,
residential, or family pool shall be approved by the City Council before the
applicable permits shall be issued by the Permits and Inspections Division.
   (C)   The city is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for
the operation and maintenance of private, residential, or family pools for the
protection and promotion of public health and safety.
   (D)   Every in-ground or below grade outdoor private, residential, or family
pool shall be completely surrounded by a fence or wall not less than five feet
seven inches in height.
      (1)   All fence openings for both in-ground and above ground pools shall
not allow passage of four-inch diameter sphere. Above ground and/or in-ground
pools shall have a minimum 48-inch high fence.
      (2)   A dwelling or accessory building may be used as part of such
enclosure.
      (3)   Fences must comply with §
153.102 of this subchapter.
   (E)   All gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device located at least 45 inches above
grade level for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times.
   (F)   Where a wall of the house serves as part of the enclosure barrier,
either all doors including sliding doors with direct access to the pool shall
be equipped with an approved automatically resetting audible alarm, or doors
shall be self-closing and self-latching with the release mechanism for the
latch installed 54 inches minimum above the threshold, or the pool shall be
equipped with an approved power safety cover. This requirement shall be limited
to in-ground swimming pools and/or pools set into a deck and that have no other
existing barrier.
   (G)   The pool structure may be acceptable as a barrier, provided the 48-
inch minimum height requirement is met, or if the barrier is mounted and sturdy
on top of the pool structure. A removable ladder shall not constitute an
acceptable alternative to barrier requirements. When the pool structure
qualifies as the barrier, the ladder access area shall be enclosed with an
approved minimum 48-inch high fence with self-closing and self-latching gate or
door. The self-latching device shall be located at least 45 inches above grade
level for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all times.
   (H)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to all outdoor
family pools, which have a depth of 24 inches of water or greater.
      (1)   Depth shall be measured from the pool bottom to the point of
overflow of the pool rim.
      (2)   No person in possession of land within the city limits, either as
owner, purchaser, lessee, tenant, or licensee, upon which is situated a family
pool having a depth of 24 inches or greater, shall fail to provide and maintain
such fence or wall as herein provided.
      (3)   Private/residential or family spas shall have a safety cover
complying with ASTM F1346 and shall be covered at all times when not in use.
   (I)   Drainage of said swimming pool must not be onto adjoining property.
There shall be no drainage of said swimming pool into the sanitary sewer of the
city.
   (J)   Drainage may be permitted into the storm sewer provided the chemicals
contained in said swimming pool are first diluted.
   (K)   All chemicals for said swimming pool must be stored in a secure area.
   (L)   The carrying on of any commercial undertakings at a private,
residential, or family pool entailing sales of food, drinks, novelties, or
other merchandise is hereby prohibited.
   (M)   Recommended safety of bathers: all reasonable precautions shall be
taken to protect the users and bathers in private, residential, or family
swimming pools from injury or accident. Convenient means of ingress and egress
shall be provided and the depth of water and any irregularities of the bottom
shall be clearly indicated. Safety appliances such as life buoys, life hooks,
ropes, and first-aid kits, are recommended and should be readily accessible.
   (N)   Any associated fees will follow the current fee schedule.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 706, passed 8-12-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.106 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. The front yards heretofore established shall be adjusted
in the following cases.
      (1)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed and the buildings on this side of a block
have observed a front yard greater in depth than herein required, new buildings
shall not be erected closer to the street than the average front yard so
established by the existing buildings, provided that no building shall be
required to have a front yard setback of more than 50 feet.
      (2)   Where 40% or more of the frontage on one side of a street between
two intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have a front yard
less than the required, new buildings shall not be erected closer to the street
than the nearest building on the block.
   (B)   Side yard. The required side yard shall be maintained on each side of
a dwelling, but such side yard may be reduced to 10% of the lot width on lots
of less than 60 feet in width; provided however, that no side yard shall be
less than five feet.
   (C)   Rear yard depth. The required rear yard may be reduced to 20% of the
depth of the lot. An accessory building may be built within a required rear
yard when located at least five feet from the rear lot line and when occupying
not more than 30% of the area of such required rear yard. Further, where access
to a garage is provided from an alley, such structure shall be no closer than
eight feet to said alley.
   (D)   Structural projections. The ordinary projections of chimneys and
flues, buttresses, eaves, overhangs, open-unenclosed steps, or stoops up to
five feet in height may extend into required yards for a distance of not more
than two feet in the required side yard and not more than five feet in the
required front yard.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.107 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height limitations contained in the schedule of district regulations do
not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof
level and not intended for human occupancy and agricultural structures.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
§ 153.120 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby created and shall be known as
the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The members of said Board shall be appointed by
the City Council.
   (B)   One member only of said Board shall be appointed from membership of
the Planning Commission and the loss of membership on the Planning Commission
by such member shall also result in the immediate loss of membership on the
Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (C)   Said Board shall consist of five regular members, plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason, each to be appointed
for staggered terms of three years and removable for cause by the City Council
upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired terms of any member whose terms become vacant.
   (D)   The members of the Board shall elect one of their number as
chairperson and another as vice chairperson and another secretary.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.121 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
chairperson and at such times as the Board may determine. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the City Clerk and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.122 INTERPRETATIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Duties and powers. The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to
appropriate conditions and safeguards as specified in these regulations, have
the following powers (Neb. RS 23-168.01):
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or Planning Commission based on or made in the enforcement of any
zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
regulation, requests for interpretation of any maps, or for decisions upon
other special questions upon which the Board is authorized by any such
regulation to pass; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of adoption of the this chapter, or by
reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of such a piece of property, the strict
application of any enacted regulation under this act would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships
up the owner of such property, to authorize, upon appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardships, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of these zoning regulations, but no such variance shall be authorized
unless the Board finds that:
         (a)   The strict application of the regulation would produce undue
hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reasons of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
   (B)   Interpretation and variances. No variance shall be authorized unless
the Board finds that the condition or situation of the property concerned or
the intended use of the property is not of so general or recurring a nature as
to make reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be
adopted as an amendment to the zoning regulations.
   (C)   Reversal, affirmation, or modification of determination. In exercising
the above-mentioned powers, such Board may, in conformity with the provisions
of said sections, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as shall be proper, and to that end,
shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of any such administrative
official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under any such regulation or to effect any variation in such
regulation.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.123 PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING A VARIANCE.
   The procedures to be followed by the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, or governmental agency affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be made within ten days from the date
of decision by any city officer or department. The appeal filed in writing
shall define the appeal being requested and the grounds therefore. The officer
from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment all the paper constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on
notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (B)   Hearings. The chairperson of the Board shall set a hearing within 30
days of receipt of the appeal. The time, date, place of the hearing, and
description of the request shall be published in a local newspaper of general
circulation ten days prior to the actual hearing. The Board shall also notify
the interested parties in the case of the hearing date, time, and place.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.124 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person or persons, jointly or separately, aggrieved by any decision of
the Board of Zoning Adjustment, or any officer, departments, board, or bureau
of the city, may seek review of such decision by the District Court for the
city in the manner provided by the laws of the state and particularly by Neb.
RS 19-912.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS AND ENFORCEMENT AND FEES
§ 153.135 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to assist the city in the
implementation of the Comprehensive Plan, zoning, and subdivision regulations.
The City Council, Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator (or City Clerk),
and the Zoning Board of Adjustment are responsible for the enforcement of the
plan and its implementation, through utilization of the zoning and subdivision
regulations.
   (B)   The procedures provided in this section are to be used as a tool or
means of assisting the community and local officials and commission members. It
should be noted, however, the procedures and processes described in this
section are models and are subject to change due to modifications, alterations,
and additional requirements through legislative action and/or judicial rulings
by Courts of Law, it is therefore necessary to monitor potential legislative
actions and judicial rulings. Several resources are available to assist the
community in the task, including the City Attorney, City Clerk, League of
Nebraska Municipalities, Nebraska Planning and Zoning Association, American
Planning Association - Nebraska Chapter, Nebraska Department of Economic
Development - Community Affairs Division, and local state senator(s). All of
the resources should be utilized, particularly to maintain up-to-date and
enforceable zoning and subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.136 GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   Generally. One of the primary governmental organizations involved in
the planning and zoning process is the governing body of the city. For the
purpose of zoning administration, the governing body for the city is the duly
elected City Council and Mayor.
   (B)   Responsibilities. The governing body has the following
responsibilities for zoning administration:
      (1)   Appoint members to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   Officially adopt the Comprehensive Plan, zoning, and subdivision
regulations;
      (3)   Hold public hearings prior to adoption or amendment of the
Comprehensive Plan, zoning, and subdivision regulations;
      (4)   Create the Board of Zoning Adjustment;
      (5)   Consult with the Planning Commission prior to official action by
governing body on the adoption or amendment of zoning and subdivision
regulations;
      (6)   Approve or disapprove subdivision plats;
      (7)   Grant waivers to the provisions of the subdivision regulations; and
      (8)   Approve expenditure of funds for zoning administration.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.137 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A Planning Commission is a group of local citizens, appointed by
the Mayor and City Council. The Planning Commission carries out planning
activities and serves in an “advisor” capacity to the City Council. State
statutes require that planning commissions must be consulted by the governing
body on matters concerning community planning before the elected officials can
take formal action. The Planning Commission must therefore develop the
capabilities, which enable it to provide sound and knowledgeable advice to
those who seek it.
      (2)   Nebraska legislation gives any municipality the power to create by
ordinance a Planning Commission. The Planning Commission of a city shall be
designated city planning or city Plan Commission (Neb. RS 19-925). Planning
Commissions have jurisdictions over the incorporated area and can take
jurisdiction over the area outside the city limits up to one mile.
   (B)   Duties and powers of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality that can include the following:
         (a)   Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Capital improvement program;
         (c)   Subdivision regulations;
         (d)   Building codes; and
         (e)   Zoning Code.
      (2)   Consult and advise with public officials and agencies; public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the adoption and implementation of the Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Delegate authority to any such group to conduct studies and make
surveys for the Commission;
      (4)   Make recommendations to the City Council on the adoption or
amendment of the Comprehensive Plan, subdivision regulations, zoning ordinance,
or capital improvements;
      (5)   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies, with
the consent of the City Council;
      (6)   Conduct or sponsor special studies or planning work for any public
body or appropriate agency;
      (7)   Receive grants, remuneration, or reimbursement for studies
conducted;
      (8)   Summon witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of
testimony at public hearings; and
      (9)   Make recommendation on the approval or denial of special permits to
the City Council (Neb. RS 19-929).
   (C)   Meetings. The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in
each month. It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations. The
Planning Commission meetings shall adhere to the public meetings law and the
minutes of such meeting shall be a public record.
   (D)   Nebraska public meeting statutes. Every meeting of a public body shall
be open to the public in order that citizens may attend and speak at such
meeting. The public meeting law is broadly interpreted and liberally construed
to obtain the objectives of openness in favor of the public and provisions
permitted closed sessions must be narrowly and strictly construed (Neb. RS 84-
1408). Public meetings shall also adhere to the rules and regulations
authorized by Neb. RS 84-1409 through 84-1414.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.138 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)    This chapter shall be administered by a Zoning Administrator who
shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   In many communities, the Zoning Administrator is also designated as
the Building Inspector. The Zoning Administrator is the central figure in
zoning administration. All zoning and subdivision cases are coordinated through
the office of the Zoning Administrator and the Administrator is the first and
last person who has contact with developers and builders with regard to zoning
and approval of subdivisions.
As the name implies, the Zoning Administrator is not a policy maker nor does
the Administrator establish the zoning regulations or subdivision requirements.
If there is any question about whether or not to grant approval of a zoning
permit or subdivision plat, the Zoning Administrator will immediately begin
routing the application to the appropriate governmental organization for
action.
   (C)   Specific duties of the Zoning Administrator include:
      (1)   Issue building permits and certificates of occupancy.
         (a)   Receive application and permit fee from anyone who is erecting
any structure within the zoning jurisdiction;
         (b)   Explain to the applicant what the requirements are in the zoning
regulations or any codes adopted by the governing body;
         (c)   Check with zoning regulations to see if land is properly zoned
and if plans meet the legal requirements. If in conformance, then submit the
application to the Planning Commission and City Council for their review and
consideration for approval. If approved by both the Planning Commission and
City Council, then issue the permit; and
         (d)   Make final inspection at that time to determine if structure
meets all legal requirements.
      (2)   Receive applications for variance:
         (a)   Inform applicant of legal procedures;
         (b)   Prepare report for Zoning Board of Adjustment, which describes
property and special conditions;
         (c)   Transmits report to Zoning Board of Adjustment; and
         (d)   Keep complete records on application.
      (3)   Receive applications for special use permits:
         (a)   Inform applicant of zoning requirements and codes and of legal
process;
         (b)   Advertise public hearing ten days prior to Planning Commission
meeting;
         (c)   Notify area residents as prescribed by law; and
         (d)   Maintain records.
      (4)   Receive requests for rezoning:
         (a)   Inform applicant of legal process;
         (b)   Prepare report for the Planning Commission that describes
property and neighborhood;
         (c)   Advertise public hearing ten days prior to the Planning
Commission meeting. Inform school board of proposed rezoning at least ten days
before public hearing. Notify area residents as prescribed by law;
         (d)   Keep minutes of public hearing;
         (e)   Advertise public hearing before governing body at least ten days
prior to meeting;
         (f)   Keep minutes of public hearing held by governing body; and
         (g)   If rezoning is granted, make the appropriate change on the
official zoning map.
      (5)   Prepare proposals for amending zoning regulations:
         (a)   Upon request from Planning Commission or governing body, prepare
zoning amendment to the regulations;
         (b)   Present proposal to the Planning Commission and governing body;
         (c)   Advertise for public hearing before the Planning Commission at
least ten days prior to hearing. Inform school board of proposed amendment at
the same time;
         (d)   Keep minutes of public hearing; and
         (e)   Advertise for public hearing before governing body at least ten
days prior to hearing.
      (6)   Receive application for subdivision plat:
         (a)   Receive application from anyone who is subdividing any parcel of
land into two or more parcels;
         (b)   Explain to applicant what the requirements are in the
subdivision regulations or related regulations effecting the subdivision of
land in the political jurisdiction;
         (c)   Make arrangements for conferences between the subdivider and the
Planning Commission or governing body;
         (d)   Receive and review pre-plat sketch, preliminary plat, and formal
plat;
         (e)   Submit comments and plat review remarks to the Planning
Commission or governing body where appropriate;
         (f)   Inform the subdivider of plat approval or denial by governing
body; and
         (g)   Keep records of all subdivisions and incorporate appropriate
changes to the official base map for the political jurisdiction resulting from
approval of subdivision.
      (7)   Receive application for waiver to the provisions of the subdivision
regulations:
         (a)   Receive application for waiver from the subdivider;
         (b)   Inform the subdivider of the required procedures;
         (c)   Prepare report for the Planning Commission describing the waiver
and applicable information relating to the waiver;
         (d)   Transmit recommendations of the Planning Commission to the
governing body with appropriate comments regarding approval or denial of the
request for a waiver;
         (e)   Notify the subdivider of action by the Planning Commission and
the governing body; and
         (f)   Keep records of all applications for waivers.
      (8)   Prepare proposals for amending the subdivision regulations:
         (a)   Upon request from the Planning Commission or governing body,
prepare amendment to the regulations;
         (b)   Present proposal to the Planning Commission and governing body;
         (c)   Advertise for public hearing before the Planning Commission at
least ten days prior to hearing. Inform school board of proposed amendment at
the same time;
         (d)   Keep minutes of public hearing;
         (e)   Advertise for public hearing before governing body at least ten
days prior to hearing;
         (f)   Keep minutes of public hearing held by governing body; and
         (g)   If amendment is approved, make appropriate changes in all
official copies of the subdivision regulations.
      (9)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including
but not limited to, all zoning maps, amendments, special use permits,
variances, appeals, and applications thereof and records of hearings thereon
and update each year:
         (a)   The compiled text of this chapter and amendments thereto,
including all amendments adopted through the preceding December 31; and
         (b)   A zoning map or maps, showing the zoning districts, divisions,
and classifications in effect on the preceding December 31.
      (10)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the
provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated, he or she shall
notify, in writing, the person responsible for such violation, indicating the
nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or
she may order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures;
removal of illegal buildings, structures, or additions or alterations thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or take any other appropriate
action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with, or to prevent
violation of, its provisions.
   (D)   As the above mentioned duties indicate, the Zoning Administrator
equally serves both the citizens of the community who apply for building
permits or submit plats and the local governing body.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014; Ord. 718, passed 9-1-2021)
§ 153.139 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Generally. The Zoning Board of Adjustment has important duties. Its
functions, partly administrative and partly judicial, are defined and limited
by state enabling legislation and by provisions of the local zoning ordinance.
This quasi-judicial body’s powers include hearing and deciding appeals, map
interpretations, and granting variances from the zoning ordinance. Under state
statutes, the Zoning Board of Adjustment is not a policymaking body, nor is it
intended to be. The Board is the body, which provides flexibility in the
administration of the zoning regulation.
   (B)   State enabling legislation. Under Neb. RS 19-907, the local
legislative body creates Zoning Boards of Adjustment by ordinance. Statutory
references for municipal zoning boards of adjustment are in Neb. RS 19-907
through 19-912.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at such times as the governing
body may designate or at the call of the chairperson.
      (2)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and adhere to
the provisions of the state public meetings law.
      (3)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and
shall be a public record.
      (4)   The Board must hold a public hearing before deciding upon
applications for variances.
      (5)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of any municipal
official, or to decide in favor of the applicant to effect any variance from
the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Duties and powers. The Zoning Board of Adjustment has the following
powers as authorized by state legislation and local ordinance:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, and decision or determination made by a municipal
official based on the zoning ordinance;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of the zoning
ordinance, request for interpretation of any map;
      (3)   To hear and decide applications for variance from the zoning
ordinance; and
      (4)   Summon witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of
testimony at public hearings.
   (E)   Criteria for granting variances. 
      (1)   The criteria and conditions that must exist for granting a variance
is identified by state statute and in this chapter. The variance is intended as
a device for adjustment where the ordinance creates unnecessary hardship in
unusual cases, to give affected property owners rights as nearly equal as
possible to those of others in the same district.
      (2)   A heavy caseload on variances may indicate that the ordinance is,
or one of its specific regulations, is not appropriate, the Board is
malfunctioning, or both. The need for variances should be minor, and variances
should be granted sparingly.
      (3)   Under no circumstances can the Board grant a variance to permit a
use not generally or by special permit allowed in the zoning district.
      (4)   A variance is granted for the property and not for the owner of the
property. The variance is thus in effect perpetually and remains with the
property and whatever structure may be constructed in the future.
      (5)   The following are general guidelines, which can be used by the
Board in deciding upon applications for variances. These general guidelines are
to be used in conjunction with the criteria and conditions specified in the
zoning ordinance.
         (a)   A variance is not the appropriate remedy for a general
condition. If this were the case, a change in the zoning regulation would be
the appropriate action.
         (b)   Self-inflicted hardships are not grounds for a variance. If the
request for the variance is based upon some action of the applicant, such as
the selling of a portion of a lot which does not comply to the existing
district regulations as opposed to a case where the area or width of a lot was
reduced because land was taken for street widening.
         (c)   Personal hardship is not grounds for a variance. The hardship
must relate to the physical character of the property.
         (d)   Economic hardship in itself is not grounds for a variance. It
may be considered as an element, but there must be other compelling
considerations. In general, the law guarantees that police power measures will
not prevent a property owner from obtaining some reasonable return on his or
her land, however that may be defined. One of the most common statements in
variance law is that purely financial hardship, such as, restriction to a less
profitable use, is not sufficient to justify a variance. The granting of such
variance must be based upon a clearly demonstrable hardship approaching
confiscation, as distinguished from a special privilege or convenience sought
by the applicant.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.140 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Building permit required. No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a building permit
first having been issued by the Zoning Administrator. No building permit shall
be issued unless the proposed construction or use is in conformance with all of
the provisions of this chapter and with all other applicable codes,
regulations, and laws of the city, and with all orders, and variances lawfully
issued by the Board of Adjustment. A building permit shall not be required for
agricultural (non-residential) buildings or structures in the AG Agricultural
Residential Districts or for improvements that have a value of $1,000 or less.
Construction must begin within 90 days of issuance of the permit. The building
permit will be valid for a period of two years.
      (1)   Application for building permit. All applications for a building
permit shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing the location, ground area,
height, and bulk of all present and proposed structures, additions, parking
areas, and site improvements; the actual dimensions and shape of the lot lines;
the uses to be built upon; the building lines in proposed structures or
additions; and any other reasonable and pertinent information as may be
required by the Zoning Administrator or the proper enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Approval or disapproval of permit. The Zoning Administrator shall
examine all applications for building permits, including plans, specifications,
and documents filed therewith and shall either approve or.
      (3)   Approval or disapproval of permit. The Zoning Administrator shall
examine all applications for building permits, including plans, specifications,
and documents filed therewith, and shall either approve or disapprove such
application within 30 days of receipt of same. Upon approval and receipt of
required fees, the Zoning Administrator shall promptly issue the building
permit and shall affix his or her signature to the permit and the plans, and
mark the plans “approved”. Upon disapproval of the application, the Zoning
Administrator shall refuse to issue the permit and shall state in writing on
the plans the reasons for disapproval, affix his or her signature, and mark the
plans “disapproved”.
      (4)   Appeal from approval or disapproval. An appeal from approval or
disapproval of application shall be made to the Board of Adjustment in writing
within ten days after the determination of the Zoning Administrator has been
filed.
      (5)   Certification of occupancy required. No building, structure, or
land shall be used or occupied, in whole or in part, nor shall any change made
in the use or type of occupancy of an existing building or structure requiring
a building permit, nor shall any change be made in the use of land, except to
any use which is primarily agricultural, unless a certificate of occupancy
shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with this chapter.
      (6)   Temporary certificate. Upon request, the Zoning Administrator may
issue a partial certificate of occupancy for a period not to exceed 90 days,
for a building or structure or part thereof; before the entire work covered by
the building permit shall have been completed, provided such portion or
portions as have been completed may be occupied safely without endangering life
or the public welfare.
   (B)   Application for certificate of occupancy. 
      (1)   Generally. All applications for certificate of occupancy shall be
made by the owner or his or her agent and shall be accompanied by an affidavit
of the owner, registered architect, licensed professional engineer, or
superintendent of construction who shall state that he or she has examined the
approved plans of the structure, that said structure has been erected in
accordance with the approved plans, and that it complies with this chapter and
all local code and resolutions/ordinances governing building construction. The
application and affidavit shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy.
         (a)   Before issuing a certificate of occupancy, the Zoning
Administrator shall examine all buildings, structures, or sites for which an
application has been filed for a building permit to construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, remove, demolish, or change the use or occupancy. The Zoning
Administrator shall maintain a record of all examinations and inspections,
together with a record of findings of violations of the law.
         (b)   A certificate of occupancy shall be deemed to authorize, and is
required for, both initial and continued occupancy, and use of the building or
laud to which it applies, and shall continue in effect so long as such building
or laud is used as authorized in the certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.141 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees shall be established for this chapter by resolution of
the City Council. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and may be altered or amended only by the City Council.
Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no
action shall be taken on any application or appeal, and under no condition
shall said fee or any part thereof be refunded for failure of said action to be
adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
AMENDMENT
§ 153.155 GENERAL.
   The City Council may from time to time supplement, change, or generally
revise the boundaries or regulations contained in this chapter. A proposal for
such amendment may be initiated by the City Council, Planning Commission, or
upon application of the owner of the property affected. A filing fee
established by the City Council is required for each application to be
considered by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.156 SUBMISSION TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   All such proposed amendments shall first be submitted to the Planning
Commission for recommendation and report. Upon the development of tentative
recommendations, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing thereon
and shall cause an accurate written summary to be made of proceedings, and
shall give notice in like manner as that required for the original zoning
recommendations. Such notice shall fix the time and place for such hearing and
contain a statement regarding the proposed changes in regulations or
restrictions or in the boundary of any district.
   (B)   If such proposed amendment is not a general revision of an existing
provision of this chapter, and will affect specific property, it shall be
designated by legal description and general street location and in addition to
such publication notice, written notice of such proposed amendment shall be
mailed to all owners of lands located within 300 feet of the area proposed to
be altered and an opportunity granted to interested parties to be heard.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.157 AMENDMENT CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION.
   The procedure for the consideration and adoption of any such proposed
amendments shall be in like manner as that required for the consideration and
adoption of the ordinance except herein before or herein after modified. For
action on zoning amendments, a quorum of the Planning Commission is more than
one-half of all the members. A vote either for or against an amendment by a
majority of all the Planning Commission members present constitutes a
recommendation of the Commission; whereas a vote either for or against an
amendment by less than a majority of the Planning Commission present
constitutes a failure to recommend. When the Planning Commission submits a
recommendation of approval or disapproval of such amendment, the City Council,
if it approves such recommendation, may either adopt such recommendation by
ordinance or take no further action thereof as appropriate. In the event the
Planning Commission submits a failure to recommend, the City Council may take
such action as it deems appropriate. Upon receipt of a recommendation of the
Planning Commission which the City Council disapproves, the said governing body
shall return such recommendation to the Planning Commission with a statement
specifying the basis for disapproval, and such recommendation shall be
considered in like manner as that required for the original recommendation
returned to the Planning Commission. If such amendment shall affect the
boundaries of any district, the ordinance shall define the change or the
boundary as amended, shall order the official zoning map(s) to be changed to
reflect such amendment, and shall amend the section of the ordinance
incorporating the same and reincorporate such map as amended.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.158 PROTEST.
   Regardless of whether or not the City Council approves or disapproves a
proposed zoning amendment or fails to recommend, if a protest against such
amendment be filed in the office of the City Clerk within 14 days after the
date of the conclusion of the public hearing pursuant to said publication
notice, duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more either of the
area of the lots included in such proposed change, or of those immediately
adjacent in the rear thereof extending 300 feet there from, or of those
directly opposite thereto extending 300 feet from the street frontage of such
opposite lots, such amendments shall not become effective except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths majority of the City Council.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
COMPLAINTS AND REMEDIES
§ 153.170 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the
causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. He or
she shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take
action thereon as provided by these regulations.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.171 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of these regulations, the appropriate authorities of
the city may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use; to restrain, correct, or abate such violation;
to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure, or land; or to prevent
any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The owner or agent of a building or premises in or upon which a
violation of any provisions of this chapter has been committed or shall exist,
or lessee or tenant of an entire building or entire premises, in or upon which
such violation shall exist, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every
day that such violation continues after notification shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of the provisions of §
153.057 or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances
or special exceptions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
§
153.057 or fails to comply with any of its requirements, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $250 and, in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 667, passed 12-3-2014)
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, and Purposes
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Adherence to regulations
General Provisions
   
154.10   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.11   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.12   Compliance
   
154.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.14   Interpretation
   
154.15   Warning and disclaimer of liability
General Administrative Regulations
   
154.20   Definitions
   
154.21   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.22   Amendments
   
154.23   Nonconforming use
Floodplain Management Administration
   
154.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
154.31   Permits required
   
154.32   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator
   
154.33   Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
   
154.34   Flood data required
   
154.35   Variance and appeals procedures
   
154.36   Conditions for variances
   
154.37   Enforcement
Standards for Floodplain Development
   
154.40   General provisions
   
154.41   Elevation and floodproofing requirements
   
154.42   Design and construction standards
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSES
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the
public health, safety, general welfare, and property of the people of the
state. The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city, or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood prone area. Therefore the City of Randolph, Nebraska ordains as
follows:
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of Randolph, Nebraska are subject to inundation that results in loss of
life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
154.02 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction.
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the community, its
governmental units, its residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding.
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance
Program.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.04 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in Title 44 of the Code of Federal
Regulations and the Nebraska Minimum Standards for Floodplain Management
Programs as published in the Nebraska Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.10 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the city
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) panels 3103970005A dated
August 16, 1988 as Zones A, A1-30, AE, AO, or AH and within the Zoning
Districts FW and FF established in §
154.21. In all areas covered by this chapter, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the governing body under such safeguards and
restrictions as the city or the designated representative may reasonably impose
for the promotion and maintenance of the general welfare, health of the
inhabitants of the community and where specifically noted in this chapter.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.11 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the Floodway and the Flood Fringe Overlay Districts shall
be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map of on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
community map, the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board
of Appeals will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the
point in question shall be the governing factor in locating the district
boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the district
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the
Board of Appeals and to submit their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.12 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of this community, no development shall be
located, extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existent
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.14 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.15 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted
by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be
free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that may result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
§ 154.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it's most reasonable application:
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain that would be inundated by the
0.2% annual chance flood and delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are
expected to rise during a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as "appurtenant structure."
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed structure used exclusively for
agricultural purposes or uses in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock,
including aquatic organisms. Structures that house tools or equipment used in
connection with these purposes or uses are also considered to have agricultural
purposes or uses.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for "structure."
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety. Critical facilities include, but are
not limited to: facilities that produces, use, or store hazardous materials;
hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain vulnerable populations;
emergency support function facilities like police stations, fire stations,
vehicle and equipment storage facilities, and emergency operations centers;
public and private utility facilities vital to maintaining or restoring normal
services to flooded areas before, during, and after a flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to the construction, reconstruction, renovation,
repair, expansion or alteration of buildings or other structures; the placement
of manufactured homes; streets and other paving; utilities; filling, grading,
and excavation; mining; dredging; drilling operations; storage of equipment or
materials; or obstructions.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas.
   FLOOD FRINGE. Area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has a 1%
chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of "flooding"). FLOODPLAIN includes “flood fringe” and
floodway.” FLOODPLAIN and “special flood hazard area” are the same for use by
this chapter.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted
by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
obstructions if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (Neb. RS 46-1601 to 46-1670 as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the community's initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated August 16, 1988, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the community's initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated August 16, 1988, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this chapter.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial  damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either (1) any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement
Official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions,
or (2) any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
chapter that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the Elevation Certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped
floodplain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a
Floodway Overlay District (FW) and a Flood Fringe Overlay District (FF) as
identified in the Flood Insurance Study 310397VOOO dated August 16, 1988 and on
accompanying FIRM panels as established in §
154.10. The Flood Fringe Overlay District shall correspond to flood zones A,
AE, A1-30, AH, AO, AR, A99, and floodway areas in Zone AE that are identified
on FIRM panels. The Floodway Overlay District shall correspond to the floodway
areas in Zone AE that are identified on the FIRM panels. Within these
districts, all uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and those
standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.22 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations provided,
however, that no such action may be take until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least seven
days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Nebraska Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.23 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.30 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community's local Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is
authorized and directed to administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of
this chapter. If the local Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the
community CEO shall assume the duties and responsibilities herein.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.31 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.32 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to
the following:
   (A)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain development
permits.
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied.
   (C)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required.
   (D)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine whether such
proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (E)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (F)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (G)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain.
   (H)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
   (I)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values.
   (J)   Ensure comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent with
this chapter.
   (K)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or ordinances, the Floodplain
Administrator shall revoke the permit and work to correct any possible
violation in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.33 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)    For all development proposed in the floodway, no-rise certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed professional engineer.
   (F)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.34 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If Flood Insurance
Study data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood
elevation or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other
sources, including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best
technical practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the Flood Insurance
Study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.35 VARIANCE AND APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals as established by the city shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
    (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Appeals or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
23-168 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912 (for municipalities).
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Board of Appeals shall
consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and,
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.36 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing division (E) below has been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure on
the National Register of Historic Places and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (F)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated flood way if any
increase in water surface elevations along the floodway profile during the base
flood discharge would result.
   (G)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
in the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (H)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage and also that such
construction below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and
property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance
actions as required by this chapter.
   (I)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the
community.
   (J)   Agricultural structures. A variance is authorized to be issued for the
construction or substantial improvement of agricultural structures provided the
requirements of this section and the following are satisfied:
      (1)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock, or
storage of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses,
and will be restricted to such exclusive uses.
      (2)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage, and loss of function).
      (3)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety,
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including but not limited to
the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock confinement operations,
liquified natural gas terminals, and production and storage of highly volatile,
toxic, or water-reactive materials.
      (4)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of §
154.41(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized
community representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there
has been a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator shall give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter
provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)    Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm, corporate, or other entity that
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall
upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500, and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this chapter shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non-compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.40 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
      (1)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any
way that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the
flood carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment
of upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
      (2)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the Nebraska Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   Encroachments.
      (1)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards in division (B)(2) of this section shall apply:
         (a)   Any development that will cause a rise in the base flood
elevations within the floodway; or
         (b)   Any development in Zones A, A1-30, and Zone AE without a
designated floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base
flood elevation; or
         (c)   Alteration or relocation of a stream; then
      (2)   The applicant shall:
         (a)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
Conditional Letter of Map Revision process (as per Title 44 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Part 65.12) prior to the permit for the
encroachments; and
         (b)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain
Administrator including any required notifications to potentially affected
property owners.
   (C)   Floodway Overlay District.
      (1)   Within any floodway, any new construction or substantial
improvements shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District:
         (a)   New structures for human habitation are prohibited.
         (b)   All encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development must be prohibited unless certification by
a registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
the development shall not result in any increase in water surface elevations
along the floodway profile during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
These developments are also subject to all the standards of §§
154.40-
154.42.
         (c)   In Zone A areas, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any
flood elevation and floodway data available through federal, state, or other
sources, including studies done under §
154.42(H), in meeting the standards of this section.
      (3)   Only uses having a low flood-damage potential and not obstructing
flood flows shall be allowed within the Floodway Overlay District to the extent
that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway Overlay District:
         (a)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
and forestry
         (b)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking, and play areas
         (c)   Nonresidential uses such as loading areas, parking, and airport
landing strips
         (d)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, parks, and wildlife and nature preserves.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.41 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the FIRM or if no depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as
two feet plus one foot of free board.
      (3)   In the floodway, new structures for human habitation are
prohibited.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM or if no
depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as two feet plus one
foot of freeboard.
   (C)   Wet-floodproofing for agricultural structures by variance. When owners
elect to wet floodproof agricultural structures, the structure shall:
      (1)   Be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Have flood damage-resistant materials below the base flood
elevation in compliance with the definition in §
154.20.
      (3)   Have mechanical, electrical, and utility equipment elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that below one
foot above the base flood elevation they are:
         (a)   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water; and,
         (b)   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy.
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
154.33.
      (5)   Have flood openings in compliance with the requirements below: The
structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the entry and exit of
floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade, and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (6)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (D)   Critical facilities. New construction or substantial improvement of
any critical facility is prohibited in all areas of the floodplain and the 0.2%
annual chance floodplain, unless all of the following provisions are met:
      (1)   No feasible alternative site exists for the construction of an
equivalent facility within the corporate or extraterritorial jurisdiction
boundaries of the city;
      (2)   The facility has the lowest floor, including basement, of all
structures elevated to one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, floodproofed so
that below one foot above the 0.2% annual chance flood elevation:
         (a)   The structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water; and
         (b)   The structure has structural components with the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the standards of the subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in § 154.33.
      (3)   If the 0.2% annual chance floodplain is not identified, the
facility shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to three
feet above the base flood elevation or be floodproofed to three feet above the
base flood elevation with the standards in §
154.41(C)(1)(b).
      (4)   The facility has at least one access road connected to land outside
the 0.2% annual chance floodplain that is capable of carrying emergency support
vehicles and the top of the access road is no lower than the 0.2% annual chance
flood elevation.
   (E)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. The size of such enclosed areas shall not exceed the maximum
clearance height of four feet. Designs for meeting this requirement must either
be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or
exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade, and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to a principal building may
have the lowest floor below one foot above base flood elevation provided that
the structure complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 800 square feet.
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement.
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space,
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade, and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated to or above one foot above the base flood
elevation or floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood elevation
they are:
         (a)   Watertight and substantially impermeable to the passage of
water; and,
         (b)   Capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify that the standards of this section are satisfied. A floodproofing
certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
154.33.
      (8)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (9)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (G)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes meeting the criteria below to
be placed or substantially improved within floodplains on sites be elevated on
a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is
at or above one foot above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to
an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of
this section:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision,
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision,
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas that are not subject to the provisions of §
154.41(G)(1) be elevated so that either;
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation, or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of §
154.41(G)(4).
      (3)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
154.42(H).
      (4)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (H)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
permit is required and the provisions of §
154.41(G)(2)-(4) shall apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure in the floodway shall comply with the provisions
of §
154.40(C).
      (4)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
§ 154.42 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures located in Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH,
shall have their mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilation, air
conditioning, plumbing, and any other service utilities elevated to or above
one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   All buildings or structures located in Zone AO, shall have their
mechanical, electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service utilities elevated above the highest adjacent at least as
high as depth in feet specified on the FIRM plus one foot of freeboard, or if
no depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as two feet plus one
foot of free board.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas lines, electrical,
telephone, and other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Within any floodway, recreational vehicles and recreational vehicle
parks shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites within the floodplain
shall:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it
is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for Conditional Letters of Map Revision and a
Letters of Map Revision.
(Ord. 734, passed 3-8-2023)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section             Code Section
10-101 through 10-143       35.12
10-606 through 10-612       35.12
Ch. 11, Art. 1              32.61
11-101                      33.031
11-104                      33.030
11-105                      33.030
11-109                      33.030
11-110                      33.030
11-111                      33.030
11-112                      33.030
11-113                      33.030
11-114                      33.030
11-115                      33.030
11-116                      33.030
11-117                      33.030
11-118                      33.030
12-402                      32.06
12-301 through 12-403       91.01
12-401 through 12-403       32.06
13-503                      35.01
13-504                      35.33
13-505                      35.33
13-506                      35.34
13-507                      35.34
13-508                      35.35,
                            35.62
13-509                      35.35
13-509                      35.60
13-509.01                   35.32
13-509.02                   35.32
13-510                      35.35
13-511                      35.39
13-518 to 13-522            35.34,
                            35.35
13-518 through 13-522       35.39
13-519                      34.04
13-606                      35.02
13-609                      35.14
13-903                      35.05
13-1802                     32.62
16-230                      93.17
16-318(3)                   31.05
16-691.01                   35.11
16-714 through 16-716       35.10
17-101                      93.15,
                            93.17
17-102                      30.30
17-103                      30.30
17-104                      30.30
17-105                      33.004
17-106                      33.004
                            30.15,
                            30.17,
17-107                      31.01,
                            31.08,
                            31.12,
                            32.62
                            30.16,
17-108.02                   30.30,
                            31.03
17-110                      30.16
17-111                      30.16
17-112                      30.16
17-113                      30.16
17-114                      30.16
17-117                      30.16
17-118                      32.62
17-119                      31.14
                            32.04,
17-121                      93.01,
                            93.02
17-143                      114.01
17-144                      114.01
17-145                      52.13
17-147                      32.35
17-148                      30.31
17-150                      31.16
17-501 to 17-560            31.10
17-505                      10.99,
                            30.45
17-506                      35.55
17-507                      35.55
17-526                      90.20,
                            90.21
17-528                      53.06
17-534                      51.01
17-536                      51.13
                            51.05,
                            51.10,
17-537                      51.14,
                            51.15,
                            51.16
17-538                      50.01,
                            51.08
17-540                      35.11
17-541                      31.10
17-542                      51.06,
                            51.07
17-543                      31.10
17-547                      90.01,
                            90.06
17-550                      92.26,
                            92.27
17-556                      130.15,
                            130.17
17-557                      95.035
                            95.017,
17-557.01                   95.035,
                            95.036
17-558                      95.056
17-559                      95.056
17-563                      93.19,
                            130.27
17-567                      95.016
17-568                      31.16
17-568.01                   31.16
                            52.01,
17-574                      52.03,
                            52.05
17-575                      52.05
17-602                      34.03
17-604                      31.01,
                            33.030
17-605                      31.04
17-606                      31.05
17-606(2)                   31.05
17-607                      35.09
17-608                      35.11
17-609                      35.11
17-610                      31.06
17-611                      33.045
                            30.48,
17-613                      30.50 -
                            30.52
                            10.15,
17-614                      30.48,
                            30.49,
                            30.53
17-614(3)                   30.49
17-615                      30.51
17-616                      30.49
17-701                      35.30
17-702                      35.08,
                            35.59
17-703                      35.06
17-706                      35.36
17-708                      35.04
17-709                      35.04
17-710                      35.07
17-711                      35.04
17-714                      35.05
17-715                      35.05
17-718                      32.40
17-720                      35.10
17-801                      32.05
17-802                      32.05
17-802.01                   32.05
17-803                      35.11
17-804                      31.10
17-805                      32.05
17-806                      32.05
17-807                      32.05
17-808                      32.05
17-810                      32.05
17-909                      53.01
17-919                      31.16
17-925.01                   50.01,
                            52.01
17-925.02                   52.11
17-938                      91.04
17-941                      91.03
17-948                      94.20
17-948 through 17-952       32.07
17-949                      94.21,
                            94.22
17-951                      94.20
17-952                      94.20
17-953                      94.61
17-953 et seq.              32.35
                            93.19,
17-1001                     115.14,
                            150.35 -
                            150.37
18-131                      30.50
                            30.45,
18-132                      93.04,
                            150.35 -
                            150.37
18-172                      10.99
18-305 through 18-312       33.045,
                            33.046
18-412                      53.01
18-503                      50.01
18-925                      153.137
18-1214                     35.61
18-1216                     35.06
18-1306                     153.137
18-1701                     31.04
                            93.15,
                            93.17 -
                            93.19,
                            95.001,
18-1720                     110.99,
                            114.99,
                            130.23,
                            130.31,
                            150.16 ,
                            150.72
                            10.99,
                            95.001,
18-1722                     110.99,
                            114.99,
                            130.31
18-1722.01                  150.17
18-1729                     72.16,
                            72.17
18-1743                     150.64
18-1752                     54.02
18-1801 through 18-1805     35.12
18-2101 to 18-2144          32.10
18-2101.01                  32.10
18-2803                     35.40
18-2804                     35.02,
                            35.40
18-2805                     35.40
18-2806                     35.40
18-2807                     35.40
18-2808                     35.40
18-3301                     30.16
19-613                      30.30
19-901 et seq.              32.03
19-901                      32.03
19-901 to 19-914            32.03
19-901 to 19-915            32.03
19-901 through 19-929       153.004
                            93.04,
19-902                      150.35 -
                            150.37
19-903 to 19-904.01         32.03
19-907                      32.03,
                            153.139
19-907 through 19-912       153.139
19-908                      32.02,
                            32.03
19-909                      32.03
19-910                      32.03
                            32.03,
19-912                      153.057,
                            153.124,
                            154.35
19-912.01                   32.03
19-915                      30.53
19-922                      30.45
19-925 et seq.              32.02
19-929                      32.02
19-929(3)                   32.03
19-1101                     31.05
19-1102                     31.04
19-1103                     31.04,
                            31.05
19-1301                     35.08
19-1302                     35.08
19-1303                     35.08
19-1304                     35.08
19-1309                     35.57
19-1310                     35.57
19-1311                     35.57
19-1312                     35.57
19-2701                     52.03
19-2902                     35.02
19-2903                     35.02
19-2904                     35.02
19-2905                     35.02
19-2906 through 19-2909     35.02
19-3101                     30.34
19-3701                     30.52
19-5406                     150.73
20-301 through 20-322       112.07
20-301 through 20-344       112.01
23-114.02                   32.03
23-122                      31.04
23-168                      154.35
23-168.01                   153.122
25-505.01                   34.10
25-2703                     30.45
Chapter 28, Art. 3          110.22
28-310                      130.19
Chapter 28, Art. 4          110.22
28-401                      112.02
28-431                      130.28
28-512                      130.06
28-514                      130.06
28-516                      71.053
28-517                      130.07
28-519                      91.08,
                            130.05
28-523                      94.01,
                            130.09
28-610                      130.01
Chapter 28, Art. 7          110.22
Chapter 28, Art. 8          110.22
28-903                      130.02
                            92.29,
28-904                      130.03,
                            130.04
                            92.02,
28-908                      92.04,
                            92.06
Chapter 28, Art. 10         110.22
28-1008 to 28-1016          90.03
28-1009                     90.04
Chapter 28, Art. 11         110.22
Chapter 28, Art. 12         110.22
28-1202                     130.16
28-1229                     92.40
28-1321                     93.19
28-1322                     130.20
28-1465                     32.62
28-1466                     32.62
28-1472                     32.62
29-215                      32.62
29-830 to 29-835            150.39
29-4001 to 29-4014          130.32
29-4003                     130.32
29-4013                     130.32
31-1001 to 31-1023          153.057,
                            154.01
32-101                      30.30,
                            Ch. 34
32-109                      30.16,
                            30.30
32-110                      34.03
32-115                      34.03
32-404                      34.01,
                            34.05
32-405                      34.04,
                            34.10
32-533                      30.15,
                            30.30
32-552                      30.30
32-553                      30.30
32-554                      30.30
32-556                      34.01
32-557                      30.30,
                            34.06
32-559                      34.04
                            30.17,
32-560                      30.33,
                            30.34
32-560 through 32-572       30.17,
                            30.33
32-561                      30.17,
                            30.33
32-562                      34.10
32-567 to 32-570            34.10
                            30.17,
32-568                      30.17,
                            30.33
32-569                      30.33
32-574                      34.10
32-603                      30.16,
                            30.30
32-604                      30.16,
                            30.30
32-606                      34.07
32-607                      34.07
32-608                      34.08,
                            34.09
32-615                      34.09
32-616                      34.09
32-617                      34.09
32-618                      34.09
32-621                      34.09
32-622                      34.07
32-625                      34.07
32-625(2)                   34.09
32-627                      34.07,
                            34.09
32-628                      34.09
32-628 through 32-631       35.58
32-629                      34.09,
                            34.10
32-630                      34.09,
                            34.10
32-710                      34.09
32-802                      34.02,
                            35.58
32-918                      34.11
32-952 through 32-959       34.04
32-1301                     34.10
32-1302                     34.10
32-1303                     34.10
32-1304                     34.10
32-1305                     34.10
32-1306                     34.10
32-1307                     34.10
                            30.17,
32-1308                     30.33,
                            34.10
32-1309                     34.10
32-1524                     34.11
32-1525                     34.11
33-139.01                   32.37
33-141                      31.05
35-102                      32.37
35-103                      32.37
35-108                      32.37,
                            32.46
37-1254.01                  32.62
37-1254.02                  32.62
39-103                      71.040
39-311                      71.035,
                            71.036
39-1302                     152.02
39-2512                     31.14
45-623                      35.13
45-1601 through 46-1670     154.20
48-115                      32.37
49-801(16)                  10.05
49-1408                     33.046
49-1425                     33.046
49-14,102                   33.046
49-14,103.01                33.046
49-14,103.02                33.046
49-14,103.03                33.046
49-14,103.04                33.046
49-14,103.05                33.046
49-14,103.06                33.046
49-1499.03                  33.046
49-1499.04                  33.046
51-201                      35.58,
                            94.35
51-201 to 51-219            32.01
51-201 through 51-219       94.36
51-201.01                   94.40
51-202                      32.01,
                            32.08
51-204                      32.01
51-205                      94.36
51-206                      94.39
51-207                      94.36
51-209                      94.35
51-210                      94.37
                            94.36,
51-211                      94.40,
                            94.41
51-212                      94.40
51-213                      94.42
51-214                      94.43
51-215                      35.08,
                            94.44
51-216                      35.08,
                            94.38
51-501                      35.58
52-601.01 to 52-605         130.28
53-103.01 through 53-103.47 110.01
53-116.01                   110.24
53-118                      110.47
53-123.12                   110.22
53-124                      110.22,
                            110.26
53-124.01                   110.22
53-124.12                   110.26
53-124.15                   110.45
53-125                      110.22
53-129                      110.22
53-131                      110.22
53-132                      110.22
53-133                      110.22,
                            110.45
53-134                      110.22 ,
                            110.23
                            110.22,
53-134.03                   110.47,
                            110.50
53-134.04                   110.23,
                            110.30
53-135                      110.25
53-135.01                   110.22,
                            110.25
53-148                      110.26
53-167.02                   110.52
53-167.03                   110.52
53-168.06                   110.20
53-175                      110.21
53-177                      110.45
53-177.01                   110.45
53-178                      110.46
53-180                      110.02
53-180.01                   130.11
53-183                      110.49
53-184                      110.50
53-186                      110.03,
                            130.10
53-186(2)                   110.03
53-186.01                   110.03
53-194.03                   110.21
53-1,101                    110.28
53-1,102                    110.29
53-1,115                    110.30
53-1,121                    110.04
54-601                      90.33
54-602                      90.33
54-603                      90.20,
                            90.21
54-604                      90.27
54-605                      90.25
54-606                      90.23
55-133                      70.01
60-169                      130.28
60-301                      35.61
60-376                      130.28
60-3,104                    35.61
60-462                      70.06
                            71.040,
60-4,182                    71.042,
                            71.043
60-4,163                    32.62
60-4,164                    32.62
60-601                      Ch. 70
60-606 through 60-676       70.01
60-607                      70.01
60-610                      70.01
60-613                      70.01
60-624                      70.01
60-631                      70.01
60-638                      70.01
60-646                      70.01
60-654                      70.01
60-656                      70.01
60-658.01                   70.01
60-661                      70.01
60-669                      70.01
60-670                      70.01
60-671                      70.01
60-672                      70.01
60-676                      70.01
60-678                      70.02,
                            73.01
                            70.03,
                            72.02,
                            72.04,
60-680                      72.05,
                            72.08,
                            72.10 -
                            72.12
60-681                      70.04
60-682                      70.99
60-682.01                   71.999
60-683                      70.06,
                            71.055
60-684 through 60-694.01    70.99
60-689                      70.99
60-1901                     130.28
60-1902                     130.28
60-1903                     130.28
60-1903.01                  130.28
60-1903.02                  130.28
60-1904                     130.28
60-1905                     130.28
60-1906                     130.28
60-1907                     130.28
60-1908                     130.28
60-1909                     130.28
60-1911                     130.28
60-2410                     130.28
60-6,108                    70.05
60-6,110                    70.06
60-6,114                    70.10,
                            72.15
60-6,118                    70.01
60-6,119                    70.09
60-6,121                    70.06
60-6,129                    71.003,
                            71.037
60-6,130                    71.004
60-6,136                    71.046
60-6,138                    71.001
60-6,139                    71.047
60-6,148                    71.002
60-6,166                    72.06,
                            92.05
60-6,166                    72.08
60-6,168                    72.01
60-6,178                    71.051
60-6,179                    71.049
60-6,183                    71.048
60-6,184                    92.07
60-6,185                    71.020
60-6,186                    71.021
60-6,187                    71.021,
                            71.023
                            71.021,
60-6,188                    71.023,
                            71.999
60-6,189                    71.022
60-6,190                    71.023
60-6,192                    71.038
                            32.62,
60-6,196                    71.039,
                            71.040
60-6,197                    32.62
60-6,203                    71.039
60-6,211.01                 32.62
60-6,211.02                 32.62
60-6,211.08                 110.03
60-6,222                    71.055
60-6,243                    71.056
60-6,250                    71.005
60-6,286                    71.052
60-6,288                    71.005
60-6,288 to 60-6,290        70.10
60-6,294                    70.10
60-6,304                    71.056
60-6,305                    71.021,
                            71.023
60-6,308                    71.047
60-6,313                    71.021,
                            71.023
60-6,316                    73.02
60-6,337                    73.03
60-6,338                    73.03
60-6,347 through 60-6,353   73.01
60-6,356                    73.04
60-6,370                    71.052
70-624.04                   33.046
70-655                      152.20
71-423                      110.04
71-605                      91.07
71-1557                     153.005
71-1557(1)                  150.39
71-1637                     35.58
71-1908 through 71-1918     153.005
71-1908 through 71-1923     130.32
71-4401                     90.23
71-4406                     90.35
71-4412                     90.20
71-4603                     130.28,
                            150.39
76-704 through 76-724       94.37,
                            95.056
76-2301 through 76-2332     152.25
77-1385                     150.39
77-1601                     35.60
77-1606                     35.58,
                            35.60
77-1632                     35.60
77-1633                     35.62
77-1702                     35.14
77-1725.01                  150.18
77-2201                     31.05
77-2201 through 77-2215     31.05
77-2202                     31.05
77-2209                     31.05
77-2210                     31.05
77-2212                     31.05
77-2337                     35.08
77-2341                     35.11
77-2362                     35.09
77-2363                     35.09
77-2364                     35.09
77-2365.01                  35.09,
                            35.10
77-2366                     35.09,
                            35.10
77-2386                     35.09
77-3442                     35.58,
                            94.35
77-3443                     35.58,
                            94.35
77-3444                     34.04,
                            35.58
80-202                      35.58
81-501.01 to 81-531         32.41
81-506                      32.44
81-512                      32.41
81-829.51                   35.39
81-829.65                   32.62
81-847                      150.39
81-1438                     31.08
81-1439 through 81-1446     31.08
81-1444                     32.61
81-1608 through 81-1631     150.39
84-712 through 84-712.09    31.04,
                            31.05
84-712                      152.21
84-712(2)                   31.04
84-1408                     33.002,
                            153.137
84-1409                     33.001
84-1409 through 84-1414     153.137
84-1410                     33.007,  
                            33.009
                            33.002,
84-1411                     33.003,
                            33.005,
                            33.006
84-1412                     33.009
84-1413                     33.011,
                            33.013
86-704                      152.01
86-1201 through 86-1244     152.01,
                            152.02
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
1-107              30.01
1-215              31.12
1-217              31.13
1-218              31.15
1-219              31.17
1-401              33.075
1-712              34.12
1-813              35.03
1-902              33.045
2-101              32.11
2-203              32.07
2-204              32.06
2-205              32.06
3-101              51.01
3-102              51.02
3-103              51.03
3-104              51.04
3-105              51.05
3-106              51.06
3-107              51.07
3-108              51.08
3-109              51.09
3-112              51.10
3-113              51.11
3-114              51.12
3-115              51.13
3-116              51.14
3-117              51.15
3-118              51.16
3-119              51.17
3-120              51.18
3-121              51.19
3-122              51.20
3-123              51.21
3-124              51.22
3-125              51.23
3-126              51.24
3-127              51.25
3-128              51.26
3-129              51.27
3-201              52.01
3-202              52.02
3-203              52.03
3-204              52.04
3-205              52.05
3-206              52.06
3-207              52.07
3-208              52.08
3-209              52.09
3-210              52.10
3-211              52.11
3-214              52.12
3-215              52.13
3-216              52.14
3-217              52.15
3-218              52.16
3-219              52.17
3-220              52.18
3-221              52.19
3-312              32.45
3-313              32.46
3-502              94.02
3-503              94.03
3-505              94.04
3-506              94.05
3-601              94.20
3-602              94.21
3-603              94.22
3-604              94.23
3-801              91.01
3-802              91.02
3-803              91.03
3-804              91.04
3-805              91.05
3-806              91.06
3-807              91.07
3-808              91.08
3-809              91.09
3-901              54.15
3-902              54.15
3-903              54.16
3-904              54.16
3-905              54.16
3-906              54.16
3-907              54.16
3-1001             94.60
3-1002             94.61
3-1003             94.61
3-1101             53.01
3-1102             53.02
3-1103             53.03
3-1104             53.04
3-1105             53.05
3-1106             53.06
3-1107             53.07
3-1110             53.08
3-1111             53.09
3-1112             53.10
3-1113             53.11
3-1114             53.12
4-103              93.04
4-201              54.01
4-202              54.01
4-203              54.01
4-204              54.02
4-301              93.15
4-302              93.16
4-303              93.17
4-304              93.18
5-212              73.01
5-213              73.01
5-214              73.01
5-215              73.01
5-301              71.035
5-302              71.036
5-303              71.037
5-306              Ch. 74, Sch. I
5-307              71.038
5-308              71.039
5-309              71.040
5-310              71.041
5-311              71.042
5-312              71.043
5-313              71.044
5-314              71.045
5-315              71.046
5-316              71.047
5-317              71.048
5-318              71.049
5-319              71.050
5-320              71.051
5-321              71.052
5-322              71.053
5-323              71.054
5-324              71.055
5-325              71.055
5-326              71.055
5-327              71.056
5-328              71.056
5-401              73.02
5-402              73.02
5-501              73.03
5-502              73.03
5-601              72.01
5-602              Ch. 75, Sch. I
5-603              72.03
5-604              72.03,
                   Ch. 75, Sch. II
5-605              72.04
5-606              72.05
5-607              72.06
5-608              72.07
5-609              72.08
5-610              72.09
5-611              72.10
5-612              72.11
5-613              72.12
5-614              72.13
5-615              72.14,
                   Ch. 75, Sch. III
5-616              72.15
5-617              72.16
5-618              72.17
5-619              72.18
6-101              90.20
6-102              90.21
6-103              90.22
6-104              90.23
6-105              90.24
6-106              90.25
6-107              90.26
6-108              90.27
6-109              90.28
6-110              90.29
6-111              90.30
6-112              90.31
6-113              90.32
6-114              90.33
6-115              90.34
6-116              90.35
6-117              90.36
6-201              90.01
6-202              90.02
6-203              90.03
6-204              90.04
6-205              90.05
6-206              90.06
6-301              130.01
6-302              130.02
6-303              130.03
6-304              130.04
6-305              130.05
6-306              130.06
6-307              130.07
6-308              130.08
6-309              130.09
6-310              130.10
6-311              130.11
6-312              130.12
6-313              130.13
6-314              130.14
6-315              130.15
6-316              130.16
6-317              130.17
6-318              130.18
6-319              130.19
6-320              130.20
6-321              130.21
6-322              130.22
6-323              130.23
6-324              130.24
6-325              130.25
6-326              130.26
6-327              130.27
6-330              130.29
6-331              130.30
6-402              130.31
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.02
7-103              92.03
7-104              92.04
7-105              92.05
7-106              92.06
7-107              92.07
7-108              92.08
7-109              92.09
7-202              92.25
7-203              92.26
7-204              92.27
7-205              92.28
7-206              92.29
7-301              92.40
7-401              92.55
7-402              92.56
7-403              92.57
8-101              95.015
8-102              95.016
8-103              95.017
8-104              95.018
8-105              95.019
8-201              95.035
8-202              95.036
8-203              95.037
8-204              95.038
8-205              95.039
8-301              95.055
8-302              95.056
8-303              95.057
8-304              95.058
8-305              95.059
8-306              95.060
8-307              95.061
8-308              95.062
8-309              95.063
8-401              95.075
8-502              95.001
9-201              150.01
9-301              150.35
9-302              150.36
9-303              150.37
9-304              150.38
9-305              150.39
9-308              150.40,
                   150.99
9-401              150.99
9-402              150.02
10-301             115.01
10-302             115.02
10-303             115.03
10-304             115.04
10-305             115.05
10-306             115.06
10-307             115.07
10-308             115.08
10-309             115.09
10-310             115.10
10-311             115.11
10-312             115.12
10-313             115.13
10-314             115.99
10-315             115.14
10-401             113.25
10-402             113.26
10-403             113.27
10-404             113.28
10-405             113.29
10-406             113.30
10-407             113.31
10-408             113.32
10-409             113.33
10-410             113.99
10-501             114.01
10-601             111.01
10-602             111.02
10-603             111.03
10-604             111.04
10-605             111.05
10-701             110.99,
                   114.99
10-702             110.99,
                   114.99
11-101             151.01
11-102             151.02
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2021-06  4-7-2021    35.16
2021-09  5-5-2021    35.17
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
575      1-3-1995    94.03
576      1-3-1995    150.40,
                     150.99
                     51.40 -
582      5-7-1996    51.42,
                     51.99
                     90.20 -
583      5-10-1996   90.23,
                     90.26
585      9-3-1996    112.01 -
                     112.07
588      11-5-1996   30.01
590      2-3-1998    95.040
591      6-2-1998    130.29
593      8-4-1998    35.15
597      2-2-1999    50.02
603      11-2-1999   130.18
604      1-4-2000    95.020
606      6-6-2000    95.039
610      5-1-2001    94.23
611      10-2-2001   36.01
618      5-4-2005    111.01
619      1-4-2006    35.03
                     113.99,
620      6-7-2006    114.99,
                     150.99
621      6-7-2006    93.16,
                     93.17
622      6-7-2006    150.20
624      6-7-2006    130.28
625      7-5-2006    72.13
629      9-5-2007    90.37,
                     90.99
635      11-5-2008   30.01
644      8-4-2010    90.20
                     71.070 -
647      4-6-2011    71.077,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
648      5-4-2011    34.12
649      6-13-2011   94.23
654      10-5-2011   95.035
655      12-17-2011  73.04
656      1-4-2012    32.08
663      12-18-2013  33.045
665      5-7-2014    90.36
                     153.001 -
                     153.005,
                     153.015 -
                     153.019,
                     153.035 -
                     153.038,
                     153.050 -
                     153.057,
                     153.070,
                     153.071,
                     153.085 -
667      12-3-2014   153.087,
                     153.100 -
                     153.107,
                     153.120 -
                     153.124,
                     153.135 -
                     153.141,
                     153.155 -
                     153.158,
                     153.170,
                     153.171,
                     153.999
668      3-4-2015    90.36,
                     90.99
670      6-3-2015    32.10
672      10-7-2015   32.07
674      8-3-2016    130.27
675      8-3-2016    130.32
680      6-7-2017    32.02
682      7-5-2017    150.03,
                     150.99
684      7-5-2017    31.17
685      1-3-2018    153.050
687      5-2-2018    153.102
690      7-11-2018   153.052
692      9-5-2018    110.48
693      10-3-2018   153.051,
                     153.052
694      12-5-2018   92.40
695      3-6-2019    50.01
                     50.03,
                     51.09,
700      1-8-2020    52.19,
                     53.07,
                     53.13,
                     53.14
701      2-5-2020    71.057,
                     71.999
702      2-5-2020    153.104
703      3-2-2020    54.16
705      8-12-2020   153.085
706      8-12-2020   153.105
712      10-7-2020   33.090
711      10-28-2020  32.09
                     152.01 -
                     152.05,
708      12-2-2020   152.20 -
                     152.31,
                     152.99
709      - -2020     150.41
710      2-3-2021    153.051
                     50.03,
713      3-3-2021    53.07,
                     53.13,
                     53.14
714      4-7-2021    50.04
715      5-5-2021    91.10
717      9-1-2021    95.037 -
                     95.039
718      9-1-2021    153.138
721      11-3-2021   153.005
722      1-5-2022    71.075
                     32.01,
723      2-2-2022    32.06,
                     32.07
724      2-2-2022    150.55 -
                     150.63
                     30.49,
                     30.50,
                     31.04,
                     31.08,
                     33.009,
                     33.046,
                     34.07,
725      2-2-2022    34.08,
                     35.35,
                     35.40,
                     35.60,
                     35.62,
                     54.02,
                     110.23,
                     130.28,
                     150.64
                     153.051 -
726      6-1-2022    153.053,
                     153.055
                     150.70 -
730      11-9-2022   150.80,
                     150.99
                     153.005,
731      9-7-2022    153.050 -
                     153.056
                     50.03,
                     51.09,
733      9-7-2022    52.19,
                     53.07,
                     53.14
                     154.01 -
                     154.04,
                     154.10 -
                     154.15,
734      3-8-2023    154.20 -
                     154.23,
                     154.30 -
                     154.37,
                     154.40 -
                     154.42
735      12-14-2022  31.17
737      1-11-2023   95.035
739      5-8-2023    110.03
                     54.01,
741      6-14-2023   54.15 -
                     54.18
743      8-8-2023    72.03
                     32.06,
746      2-13-2023   94.20 -
                     94.22
749      2-12-2025   150.70
750      2-12-2025   153.102
                    
 
 
