RAVENNA, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-O-006, passed 7-3-23
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
Codification Consultant to
The League of Nebraska Municipalities
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 2003-O-021
   AN ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF RAVENNA, NEBRASKA, CODIFYING THE GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY AND REPEALING PRIOR ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT HEREWITH.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RAVENNA,
NEBRASKA, AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. CODIFICATION
The ordinances of the City of Ravenna, Nebraska, are hereby revised and
classified into eight chapters and the subchapters and sections thereunder,
which are adopted and declared to be the ordinances of this City.
SECTION 2. REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT
All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed
and approved prior to the passage and approval of this codification ordinance
and in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed; provided, in
construing the provisions of this ordinance, the following ordinances shall not
be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or permanent nature, to-
wit:
   1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places.
   2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
   3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedications of land to
public use.
   4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
   5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
   7.   Appropriating money.
   8.   Granting franchise or special licenses.
   9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments or
indebtedness.
SECTION 3. EXCEPTIONS
The repeal of ordinances as provided in the preceding section hereof shall not
affect any right acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities
incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of the provisions of such
ordinances and parts thereof; said ordinances above repealed are hereby
continued in force and effect after the passage, approval and publication
hereof for the purpose of all such rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, and
liabilities and actions therefore.
SECTION 4. DEFINING CHAPTERS AND SECTIONS; ORDINANCE NUMBERING
The chapters and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are declared
to be the chapters and sections to designate said provisions, and all
ordinances hereafter passed shall numbered consecutively, beginning with number
2003-O-024.
SECTION 5. VALIDITY
Each chapter, section, and subdivision of a section of each ordinance is hereby
declared to be independent of each other chapter, section, or subdivision of a
section so far as inducement of the passage of this ordinance is concerned; and
the invalidity of any chapter, section, or subdivision of a section of this
ordinance shall not invalidate any other chapter, section, or subdivision of a
section thereof.
SECTION 6. BLANKET PENALTY
Any person, firm, or corporation, their agents or servants, who shall violate
any of the provisions of the within municipal code of ordinances, chapters,
sections, or subdivisions of sections included herein, unless specifically
otherwise provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $500.00.
SECTION 7. FINES, COSTS, COMMITMENTS
In any case where any person, including a partnership or corporation, shall
have been found guilty of the violation of any ordinance of the City of
Ravenna, such person shall pay the costs of prosecution and court costs and
shall stand committed until the same shall have been paid in full.
SECTION 8. GENERAL DEFINITIONS
   1.   Person. Whenever used in the code, "person" shall include persons,
artificial persons such as corporations, co-partnerships, associations, and all
aggregate organizations of whether character.
   2.   Gender, number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender may
apply to and include the feminine or neuter gender, and all words importing the
plural may be applied to and mean a single person, firm or thing, or vice
versa; and all words importing the singular number may be applied to and mean
plural number.
   3.   Code, ordinance, chapter. "Municipal code" shall mean General
Codification 2003-O-021. "Ordinance" and "chapter" are used synonymously,
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
   4.   Municipal and Municipality. These terms, whenever used in this code
refer to the City of Ravenna, Nebraska, a municipal corporation.
   5.   Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code, mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
   6.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Administrative Official of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   7.   Municipal Police. Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
SECTION 9. CONSTRUCITON OF CHAPTERS, ARTICLES, AND SECTIONS;
AMENDMENTS; ALTERATIONS, CODIFICATIONS; PROCEDURE
For purposes of construction, each chapter contained and arranged in this City
code shall be considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for
convenience under General Codification 2003-O-021, and each section appearing
in the several chapters of this code shall be considered a separate and
distinct unit of legislation germane to the chapter of article under which it
is considered.
SECTION 10. WHEN OPERATIVE
This ordinance shall be in full force and take effect from and after its
passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 8th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2003
ATTEST:                              APPROVED:
Cindy Kesler /s/                      Gerald R. Reimers /s/
Cindy Keslar, City Clerk                     Gerald R. Reimers, Mayor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Ravenna, Nebraska,
shall be designated as the Code of Ravenna and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Ravenna,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL, COUNCIL, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the
City of Ravenna.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Buffalo County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to such ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; and
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS
17-100)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1977, as subsequently amended, the 1977
code section number shall be indicated in the history by "(`77 Code, §      )."
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this municipal code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare
the supplement) may make formal non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts
of ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this subchapter," "this section," and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to "sections      to     " (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as "section     " or "sections      to     " which are not filled in prior
to adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this municipal code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in §
93.20, the municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the
same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Ordinance enforcement powers, see Neb. RS 17-505
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the city and kept in the office the City
Clerk/Treasurer a common seal of the corporation.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall affix an impression of the official
seal to all warrants, licenses, ordinances, and other papers issued by order of
the City Council to be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk/
Treasurer.
(`77 Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see Neb. RS 17-502
   Seal to be engraved or in ink, see Neb. RS 64-118
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Vacancies
   
30.02   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
   
30.03   Restrictions on other employment or elective office
Mayor
   
30.10   Powers and duties
City Council
   
30.20   Selection and duties
   
30.21   Council organization
   
30.22   President; acting president
   
30.23   Standing committees
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.40   Grant of power
   
30.41   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.42   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.43   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.44   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.45   Publication or posting
   
30.46   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.47   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.48   Amendments and revisions
   
30.49   Agenda for meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
(Neb. RS 32-560)
   (B)   In the case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such vacancy is filled or such
disability is removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor
returns. If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 32-568(4))
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (B), (D), or (E) of
this section, vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor
and City Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy,
except a vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing
and presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear
as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Mayor shall, within four weeks after the meeting at which such
notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the Council or place the issue of filling such vacancy on
the agenda at the next regular meeting at which time the Mayor shall submit the
name of a qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term. The Council shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority
votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the
nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be
rejected and the Mayor shall, at the next regular or special meeting, submit
the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the
subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall
continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified registered voters in
nomination and the Council shall continue to vote upon such nominations until
the vacancy is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the
nominee in the case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who
has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if such person were elected.
   (D)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in subsection (C) of this section, call a special
city election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special city election to
fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
(`77 Code, § 1-105, 1-106)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.02 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member's
absence from a meeting upon either (1) a written request from the member
submitted to the City Clerk/Treasurer or (2) a motion of any other council
member.
   (C)   If a council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall include this as an item on
the agenda for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the council shall set
a date for a hearing and direct the City Clerk/Treasurer to give the member
notice of the hearing by personal service or first-class mail to the member's
last-known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
council does not excuse one or more of the member's absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the council.
§ 30.03 RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and members of the City Council shall hold no other elective
or appointive office or employment with the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTIVE OFFICE means any office which has candidates nominated or
elected at the time of a statewide primary election, any office which has
candidates nominated at the time of a statewide primary election and elected at
the time of a statewide general election, any office which has candidates
elected at the time of a statewide general election, any office which has
candidates nominated or elected at a city election, and any office created by
an act of the Legislature which has candidates elected at an election and
includes an office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the
annual meeting of a public body created by an act of the Legislature.
      HIGH ELECTIVE OFFICE means a member of the Legislature, an elective
office described in article IV, section 1 or 20, or article VII, section 3 or
10, of the constitution of Nebraska, or a county, city, or school district
elective office.
(Neb. RS 32-604(6))
   (C)   No candidate for member of the Legislature or an elective office
described in article IV, section 1 or 20, or article VII, section 3 or 10, of
the constitution of Nebraska shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to
petition on the ballot as a candidate, to accept a nomination by a political
party or by party convention, caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be
a declared write-in candidate for more than one elective office to be filled at
the same election except for the position of delegate to a county, state, or
national political party convention. No candidate for any other high elective
office shall be eligible to file as a candidate, to petition on the ballot as a
candidate, to accept a nomination by a political party or by party convention,
caucus, or committee to fill a vacancy, or to be declared a write-in candidate
for more than one high elective office to be filled at the same election.
(Neb. RS 32-603)
   (D)   Except as provided in divisions (E) or (G) of this section, no person
shall be precluded from being elected or appointed to or holding an elective
office for the reason that he or she has been elected or appointed to or holds
another elective office.
   (E)   No person serving as a member of the Legislature or in an elective
office described in article IV, section 1 or 20, or article VII, section 3 or
10, of the constitution of Nebraska shall simultaneously serve in any other
elective office, except that such a person may simultaneously serve in another
elective office which is filled at an election held in conjunction with the
annual meeting of a public body.
   (F)   Whenever an incumbent serving as a member of the Legislature or in an
elective office described in article IV, section 1 or 20, or article VII,
section 3 or 10, of the constitution of Nebraska assumes another elective
office, except an elective office filled at an election held in conjunction
with the annual meeting of a public body, the office first held by the
incumbent shall be deemed vacant.
   (G)   No person serving in a high elective office shall simultaneously serve
in any other high elective office.
   (H)   Notwithstanding divisions (E) through (G) of this section, any person
holding more than one high elective office upon September 13, 1997, shall be
entitled to serve the remainder of all terms for which he or she was elected or
appointed.
(Neb. RS 32-604)
(`77 Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 1991-O-001, passed 1-7-91; Am. Ord. 1998-O-013,
passed 8-24-98)
Cross-reference:
   Conflicts of interest, see §
33.46
Statutory reference:
   Merger of offices or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
MAYOR
§ 30.10 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to
attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected
to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction, and the
Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the
Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the officers
and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of the city
and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of,
or vote to, enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the
Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he
or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor's veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of
any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this
section, the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The
Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill,
and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed
by the Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within one-half mile of the corporate limits of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk's minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor.
(`77 Code, § 1-101) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-006, passed 4-6-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-107, 17-110 through 17-
117 and 32-533
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.20 SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal
government and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(`77 Code, § 1-103)
Cross-reference:
   Bond required, see §
33.30
   Compensation, see §
33.45
   Conflict of interest, see §
33.46
   Oath required, see §
33.31
   Restrictions on other employment or elective office, see §
30.02
   Terms; qualifications, see §
34.06
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 32-533
§ 30.21 COUNCIL ORGANIZATION.
   City Council members of this municipality shall take office and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Council members who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the meeting has been called to order, the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall report to the City Council the names of all City Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report
shall be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each
ward of the municipality shall be represented by at least two Council members.
No person shall be eligible who is not at the time of election an actual
resident of the ward for which the person is qualified and a registered voter.
If any City Council member moves from the ward from which the Council member
was elected, his or her office shall thereby become vacant.
(`77 Code, §§ 1-104, 1-513)
Cross-reference:
   Wards, see §
34.07
Statutory reference:
   Council member qualifications, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 30.22 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall
be styled the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City
Council shall elect one of its own body to occupy that place temporarily, who
shall be styled Acting President of the Council.
   (C)   Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148) (`77 Code, § 1-102)
Cross-reference:
   Change in office, see §
33.14
   Election of president pro tempore, see §
33.03
   Organizational meetings, see §
33.15
§ 30.23 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the City Council may by ordinance, or
resolution, create. The membership of such standing committees may be changed
at any time by the Mayor. The membership of the committees shall be appointed
or reappointed each year unless otherwise provided by the City Council.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.40 GRANT OF POWER.
   The City Council may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Nebraska, as may be
expedient for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the
municipality and its trade, commerce, and manufacturies.
(Neb. RS 17-505) (`77 Code, § 1-601) (Ord. 1997-O-006, passed 6-2-97)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 30.41 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the City Council in one of the
following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk/Treasurer who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of
the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(`77 Code, § 1-601.01) (Ord. 1997-O-008, passed 6-2-97)
§ 30.42 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members elected to the City Council. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the City Council. A majority vote shall be required
to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be
by roll call vote.
(`77 Code, § 1-602)
§ 30.43 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all municipal ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained
by the Mayor and Council of the City of Ravenna, Nebraska:...."
(Neb. RS 17-613) (`77 Code, § 1-603)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (`77 Code, § 1-604)
§ 30.44 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
title on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended
for any ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage.
      (2)   A reading of any ordinance in full may be required by three-fourths
of the City Council before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
      (3)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   (1)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and
every resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the
yeas and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw,
ordinance, or any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the
whole number of members elected to the City Council shall be required.
      (2)   All appointments of the officers by the City Council shall be made
viva voce, and the concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the
names of those, and for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an
appointment, shall be recorded.
      (3)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a municipality which utilizes an electronic voting device which
allows the yeas and nays of each member of the City Council to be readily seen
by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
(`77 Code, § 1-605) (Am. Ord. 1995-O-014, passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 1997-O-007,
passed 6-2-97)
§ 30.45 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the municipality or, if no paper is
published in the municipality, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three public places in the municipality; or
   (B)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (`77 Code, § 1-606) (Am. Ord. 1991-O-008, passed 4-1-97; Am.
Ord. 1997-O-010, passed 7-7-97)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
   Emergency ordinance, see Neb. RS 17-613
§ 30.46 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer showing that the ordinance was passed and
approved, and when and in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and
by whom and where the ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613) (`77 Code, § 1-607) (Am. Ord. 1991-O-009, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Passage, rules, and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.47 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.45 and division (B) of this section, an ordinance for the government of the
municipality which has been adopted by the City Council without submission to
the voters of the municipality shall not go into effect until 15 days after the
passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   (1)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the municipality.
      (2)   Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be passed by a
three-fourths vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer's minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
(`77 Code, § 1-608) (Am. Ord. 1997-O-013, passed 7-22-97)
§ 30.48 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614) (`77 Code, § 1-609) (Am. Ord. 1997-O-011, passed 7-7-97)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all city ordinances, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.49 AGENDA FOR MEETINGS.
   Requests for items to be on the agenda shall be submitted electronically
through forms available on the city website or in writing by filing in the
office of the City Clerk. Requests must be filed at least 27 hours prior to the
time set for the special meetings or by 4:00 p.m. on the Friday before the
regular meeting. The City Clerk shall place upon the agenda of any regular,
special, or study session meeting for only those matters which have been
authorized by a member of the City Council, the Mayor or the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-O-06, passed 2-5-07)
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; removal
   
31.02   Merger of offices
   
31.03   Clerk/Treasurer position created
   
31.04   Municipal Clerk
   
31.05   Municipal Treasurer
   
31.06   Treasurer's reports
   
31.07   Deputy City Clerk
   
31.08   Municipal Attorney
   
31.09   Police Chief
   
31.10   Municipal police officers
   
31.11   Municipal Fire Chief
   
31.12   Municipal Engineer; Special Engineer
   
31.13   Municipal Utilities; separate superintendents
   
31.14   Police Matron
   
31.15   Planning Director
   
31.16   Electrical Inspector
   
31.17   Plumbing Inspector
   
31.18   Building Inspector
   
31.19   City Administrator
   
31.20   Duties, responsibilities and powers of City Administrator
   
31.21   Public Works Director
   
31.22   Public Works Assistant
   
31.23   Administrative Assistant
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
      (2)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, shall
appoint such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary.
      (3)   The City Council may establish and provide for the appointment of
members of a law enforcement reserve force as provided by law.
   (B)   All police officers and other appointed officials may be removed at
any time by the Mayor, except that if the municipality has a municipal Water
Commissioner, he or she may at any time, for sufficient cause, be removed from
office by a two-thirds vote of the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 360, passed 7-10-78; Am. Ord. 1997-O-004, passed 5-
21-97)
Statutory reference:
   Appointments and removal generally, see Neb. RS 17-107
   Law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1438
   Water Commissioner, see Neb. RS 17-541
§ 31.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and
merge any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of
duties of any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member,
with any other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more
of such offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to
be separate and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged or combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02) (`77 Code, § 1-202) (Am. Ord. 382, passed 11-5-84; Am. Ord.
1991-O-003, passed 1-7-91)
§ 31.03 CLERK/TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and Municipal Treasurer
are hereby combined and merged in accordance with the authority granted to the
City Council in §
31.02.
(`77 Code, § 1-202.01) (Ord. 1993-O-012, passed 8-16-93; Am. Ord. 1996-O-023,
passed 9-9-96)
§ 31.04 MUNICIPAL CLERK.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall attend the meetings of the City
Council and keep a correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He or she
shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the municipality and when
any bonds are sold, purchased, paid, or canceled, the record shall show the
fact. He or she shall make, at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the
business of the municipality transacted through his or her office for the year.
That record shall describe particularly the bonds issued and sold during the
year and the terms of the sale, with each and every item and expense thereof.
He or she shall file all official bonds after the same shall have been properly
executed and approved. He or she shall make the proper certificate of passage
which shall be attached to original copies of all bond ordinances hereafter
enacted by the City Council.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall issue and sign all licenses,
permits, and occupation tax receipts authorized by law and required by the
municipal ordinances. He or she shall collect all occupation taxes and license
money, except where some other municipal officer is specifically charged with
that duty. He or she shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the
municipality and the purpose for which they have been issued.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall permit no records, public papers,
or other documents of the municipality kept and preserved in his or her office
to be taken therefrom, except by such officers of the municipality as may be
entitled to the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt
therefor. He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient
for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and attest all warrants ordered
for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is payable.
At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the amounts
appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn thereon.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any citizen, official, or other
person from examining any public records at all reasonable times.
   (D)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall deliver all warrants,
ordinances, and resolutions under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her
signature. He or she shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees
all resolutions and communications which are directed at such officers,
employees, or committees. With the seal of the municipality, he or she shall
duly attest the Mayor's signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required
to be attested to when ordered to do so by the City Council.
      (2)   Within 30 days after any meeting of the City Council, the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare, and publish the official proceedings of the City
Council in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and
which was duly designated as such by the City Council. The publication shall
set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof and shall also include the
amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and the name of the
claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll claims may be
included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the employee
job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries corresponding to
such job titles shall be published. Each job title published shall be
descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the position. The
charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided for in Neb. RS
23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (3)   The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds of
the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
      (4)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall then keep in a book with a
proper index copies of all notices required to be published or posted by the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer by order of the City Council, or under the ordinances
of the municipality. To each of the file copies of the notices shall be
attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the said notices are
required to be published, or the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer's certificate under
seal where the same are required to be posted only.
   (E)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall receive all objections to
creation of paving districts and other street improvements.
      (2)   He or she shall receive the claims of any person against the
municipality, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part, or in
whole, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall notify such claimant, his or her
agent, or attorney by letter within five days after such disallowance, and the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall then prepare transcripts on appeals of any
disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   (F)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer may charge a reasonable fee for
certified copies of any record in his or her office as set by resolution of the
City Council.
      (2)   He or she shall destroy municipal records under the direction of
the state Records Board pursuant to Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1227, provided
that the City Council shall not have the authority to destroy the minutes of
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, the permanent ordinances, and resolution books,
or any other records classified as permanent by the state Records Board.
(`77 Code, § 1-203) (Am. Ord. 1993-O-001, passed 2-1-93)
Statutory reference:
   Additional duties, see Neb. RS 17-605
   Examination of public records free of charge, obtaining copies, see Neb. RS
84-712 et seq.
   Penalty for failure to perform duties, see Neb. RS 19-1104
   Publication of official proceedings, see Neb. RS 19-1102 et seq.
   Publication rates, see Neb. RS 23-122 and Neb. RS 33-141 through 33-143
   Records Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1227
§ 31.05 MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys belonging
to the municipality. He or she shall keep all money belonging to the
municipality separate and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall
keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the debits and
credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give to every person paying money
into the municipal treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment
and the account paid. One copy of the receipt shall be filed with the
Treasurer's monthly report, and another copy of the receipt shall be kept on
file in his or her office. His or her books and accounts shall always be open
for inspection by any citizen of the municipality whenever any municipal fiscal
record, audit, warrant, voucher, invoice, purchase order, requisition, payroll
check, receipt, or other record of receipt, cash, or expenditure involving
public funds is involved. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons, warrants,
and other evidences of debt against the municipality, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the Municipal
Treasurer," with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners, and shall obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes. The Treasurer's daily cash book shall be footed
and balanced daily, and he or she shall adopt such bookkeeping methods as the
City Council shall prescribe. He or she shall invest and collect all money
owned by or owed to the municipality as directed by the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 1-204)
Statutory reference:
   Records open to inspection, see Neb. RS 77-2202, 84-712, 84-712.01
   Statutory duties, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609
§ 31.06 TREASURER'S REPORTS.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall at the end of each and every
month, and such other times as the City Council may deem necessary, render an
account to the City Council under oath showing the financial state of the
municipality at that date, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the
amount paid therefrom, and the balance of money remaining in the Treasury. He
or she shall accompany the said account with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her. He
or she shall also produce depository evidence that all municipal money is in a
solvent and going bank in the name of the municipality. If the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall neglect or fail for the space of ten days from the end of each
and every month to render the accounts as aforesaid, the City Council shall by
resolution declare the office vacant and appoint some person to fill the
vacancy. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall be present at each regular meeting
of the City Council, at which time he or she shall read and file his or her
monthly report.
(`77 Code, § 1-205)
   (B)    The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually in a
legal newspaper having general circulation within the municipality, between
July 15 and August 15 of each year, a statement of the receipts and
expenditures by funds of the municipality for the preceding fiscal year. (Neb.
RS 19-1101, 19-1102)
(`77 Code, § 1-206)
Statutory reference:
   Annual report required to be published, see Neb. RS 19-1101 and 19-1103
   Statutory duties, see Neb. RS 17-606 through 17-609
§ 31.07 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The Deputy City Clerk shall keep the accounts and records, bill for,
collect all money to be received by the municipality on account of the
municipality’s system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for and pay
over to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer all such money collected in the name of
the municipality and receive a receipt from the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer for
the depository evidence of the faithful discharge of this duty. This receipt
shall then be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer, and the second copy shall be
kept by the Municipal Water Commissioner.
   (B)   The Deputy City Clerk shall make a detailed report to the City Council
at least once every six months showing the amount of receipts on account
thereof for the preceding six months. In addition to the foregoing, the Deputy
City Clerk shall perform such other duties and administrative acts for the
municipality as may be requested or directed by the City Clerk/Treasurer or the
Mayor or as may hereafter be prescribed, by resolution or motion, by the City
Council, excepting, however, those functions, duties, and acts as may otherwise
be expressly required by this municipal code or the statutes of the State of
Nebraska to be done, performed, or carried out by the City Clerk/Treasurer or
other appointed officer of the municipality.
   (C)   The Deputy City Clerk, who may be removed from office at any time by
the Mayor, shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his
or her duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution
or motion of the City Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(`77 Code, 1-220) (Ord. 478, passed 7-13-90; Am. Ord. 2006-O-42, passed 12-18-
06)
§ 31.08 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as
such he or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the City Council, he or she shall attend
meetings of the City Council and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the City Council
will be required to act and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
such instruments and documents as to whether or not the document is in legal
and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute
violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the City
Council.
   (B)   Without direction, he or she shall appear and prosecute all cases for
violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to and are
pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do
so by the City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer as much as may be necessary to the end that each
procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to insure it
will be a valid and subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval
are concerned.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the right to compensate the Municipal
Attorney for legal services on such terms as the City Council and the Municipal
Attorney may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as may be
necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
(`77 Code, § 1-207) (Am. Ord. 2006-O-42, passed 12-18-06)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-610
§ 31.09 POLICE CHIEF.
    The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the municipality and shall
be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall act as
Health Inspector and Building Inspector, except in the event the municipality
appoints another person. He or she shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary
reports required by the municipal ordinances, or the laws of the State of
Nebraska.
(`77 Code, § 1-208)  (Neb. RS 17-107, 17-121)
Cross-reference:
   Membership on Board of Health, see §
32.04
   Police Department, see §
32.60 et seq.
§ 31.10 MUNICIPAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Municipal Police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
municipality, by day or by night, and keep the offenders in the municipal jail,
or some other place to prevent their escape until trial can be held before the
proper official of the State of Nebraska, or the municipality. They shall have
full power, and authority to call on any person whenever necessary to assist
them in performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to render
such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a
fine. Every municipal police officer shall be expected to be conversant, and
knowledgeable with the municipal and state laws and no law enforcement official
shall have any interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal
police officers shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may
be required by the municipal ordinances, and the laws of the State of Nebraska.
Any municipal police officer who shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to
make an arrest, or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint after
an arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the City Council to retain any
municipal police officer in that position after he or she shall have been duly
convicted of the willful violation of any law of the United States of America,
the State of Nebraska, or any ordinance of the municipality, except minor
traffic violations. It shall be the duty of every municipal police officer
making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other
person, whenever possible, and shall carefully keep, and produce to the proper
judicial official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such
prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be
restored to them upon their release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be
furnished to the municipal police by the municipality. Any member who shall
lose or destroy the same shall be required to pay the replacement costs, and in
the event that any member shall leave the force, he or she shall immediately
deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief. The City Council may from time to
time provide the municipal police with such uniforms, equipment, and
transportation as may be essential in the performance of their official duties.
(`77 Code, § 1-209)
§ 31.11 MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He or she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the
prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable
substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire
extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of
all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He or she shall within two days
investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his or
her jurisdiction. He or she shall, on or before the first day in April and
October of each year, cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer and the Clerk of the District Court a certified copy of the rolls of
all members in good standing in their respective companies in order to obtain
the exemptions provided by law, he or she shall have the power during the time
of a fire and for a period of 36 hours thereafter to arrest any suspected
arsonist or any person for hindering the department's efforts, conducting
himself or herself in a noisy and disorderly manner, or any person who refuses
to obey any lawful order by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire
Chief or an assistant in charge of operations at a fire may command the
services of any person present at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the
removal and protection of property.
   (B)   Failure to obey such an order shall be an offense punishable by a
fine.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all reasonable hours
into buildings, and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the
purpose of examining the same for fire hazards and related dangers.
(`77 Code, § 1-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §§
32.42 to 32.50
   Fire regulations, see
Chapter 92
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enforce ordinances by imposing fine, see Neb. RS 17-505
   Authority to conduct inspections, see Neb. RS 81-512
   Investigations and reports required, see Neb. RS 81-506
   Disobeying lawful orders of firefighters, see Neb. RS 28-908
   Membership rolls and filings, see Neb. RS 35-102
§ 31.12 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Municipal Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities
and the costs of labor and materials therefor. He or she shall accurately make
all plats, sections, and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the
City Council. Upon request, he or she shall make estimates of the cost of labor
and material which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality
and make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary to be made for the
establishment of grades, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system,
waterworks, power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters
and the improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall
perform such other duties as the City Council may require.
   (B)   The City Council may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her surveys
and all other work done for the municipality. He or she shall, when directed by
the City Council, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the judgment of the City Council. He or she shall, upon
request of the City Council, make estimates of the costs of labor and material
which may be done or furnished by contract with the municipality and make all
surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades,
bridges, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power
plant, public heating system, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of
streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other
duties as the City Council may require. All records of the Special Engineer
shall be public records which shall belong to the municipality and shall be
turned over to his or her successor.
(`77 Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to employ special engineers, see Neb. RS 17-568
   Duties related to annexation, see Neb. RS 17-405
   Duties related to public works, see Neb. RS 17-568.01
   Duties related to sewers, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
   Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, see Neb. RS 81-3401 through 81-3455
§ 31.13 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES; SEPARATE SUPERINTENDENTS.
   (A)   Water Commissioner. He or she shall have general supervision and
control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily responsible for
its economic operation and prudent management. Included in the water system
shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
municipality. All actions, decisions, and procedures of the Water Commissioner
shall be subject to the general directives and control of the City Council. The
Water Commissioner shall have the general control and supervisory authority
over all employees of the Water System which the City Council may from time to
time hire to operate and maintain the system. Unless some other official is
specifically designated, he or she shall collect all money received by the
municipality on account of the system of waterworks and shall faithfully
account for and pay over to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer all such money
collected in the name of the municipality and receive a receipt from the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer for the depository evidence of the faithful discharge
of this duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer, and the second copy shall be kept by the Commissioner. He or she
shall make a detailed report to the City Council at least once every six months
of the condition of the water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants,
reservoirs, and machinery and such improvements, repairs, and extensions
thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the amount of
receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six months. No
money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or extensions of the
waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the Commissioner. The Water
Commissioner shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful discharge of
duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution of the
City Council and on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. He or
she shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the City
Council. The Water Commissioner may at any time, for self-sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the City Council or Board of Trustees; and any
vacancy occurring in the office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation or
removal from office, as aforesaid, or removal from the city or village, may be
filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for the appointment of the Water
Commissioner.
(`77 Code, § 1-212)
   (B)   Wastewater Commissioner. The Wastewater Commissioner shall have the
immediate control and supervision over all the employees and property that make
up the municipal sewer system, subject to the general control and directives of
the City Council. He or she shall at least every six months make a detailed
report to the City Council on the condition of the sewer system and shall
direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions,
and additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall have such other duties as the
City Council may delegate. He or she shall issue permits for all connections to
the municipal sewer system and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the
system.
(`77 Code, § 1-213)
   (C)   Street Department. The Street Commissioner shall, subject to the
orders and directives of the City Council, have general charge, direction, and
control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
municipality and shall perform such other duties as the City Council may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the City Council, make a detailed report to the City
Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and
bridges of the municipality and shall direct its attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as he or
she may believe are needed to maintain a satisfactory street system in the
municipality, along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue
such permits and assume such other duties as the City Council may direct.
(`77 Code, § 1-215)
   (D)   Landfill Commissioner. The Municipal Landfill Commissioner shall have
the immediate control and supervision of the municipal landfill, and of all
dumping of garbage, refuse, waste, and rubbish thereon, subject to the general
control and directives of the City Council. He or she shall, at least every six
months, make a detailed report to the City Council on the condition of the
landfill, and shall direct their attention to such improvements, additions, and
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed along with an estimate
of the cost thereof. He or she shall issue dumping permits if the City Council
should require them and shall inspect and supervise all work done to improve or
extend the landfill. He or she shall have such other duties as the City Council
may delegate to him or her.
(`77 Code, § 1-214)
(Am. Ord. 2006-O-042, passed 12-18-06)
Cross reference:
   Public Works Director, see §
31.21
Statutory reference:
   Duties of overseer of streets, see Neb. RS 17-199
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, Neb. RS 39-2512
   Water Commissioner required; bond amount, Neb. RS 17-541
   Water Commissioner’s duties and salary, ineligibility of Mayor and Council
members, see Neb. RS 17-543
§ 31.14 POLICE MATRON.
   The duties shall be as follows: accompany female prisoners during
transporting to health care facility, EPC, jail; be present during photograph
of female victims or whenever directed by police personnel to aid in any law
enforcement process that involves a female.
(Ord. 2006-O-040, passed 12-18-06)
§ 31.15 PLANNING DIRECTOR.
   The duties shall be as follows: The Planning Director is to direct and
administer the city's planning program which involves the formulation,
installation, modification and improvement of plans for the city's physical and
social development. This official acts as technical advisor to the Planning
Commission and as technical advisor to the City Administrator, City Council and
city officials on matters relating to planning and development. He or she
prepares and administers plans within the policies of the Planning Commission
and City Council, prepares and proposes long range plans, including but not
limited to capital improvement and infrastructure improvement plans. He or she
supervises the preparation and/or revision of the comprehensive plan, zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, and city zoning and plat maps. He or she
represents the Planning Commission at public meetings and at conferences with
other public and private groups. He or she gives advice to and cooperates with
municipal officials, major developers, and community organizations in
connection with new or contemplated major projects and coordinates construction
projects with long-range capital improvement programs and future land use
plans. He or she responds to requests for information from city departments,
officials, private developers, and the general public regarding land use and
regulations and municipal planning issues. He or she coordinates Planning
Commission meetings and related task forces, prepare agendas, conduct studies
and prepare reports and recommendations; and carries out Commission and Council
decisions.
(Ord. 2006-O-38, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord. 2006-O-041, passed 12-18-06)
§ 31.16 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the installation
of electrical wiring, and connections thereto. When acting in good faith, and
without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall not
himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons, or property as the result of any act required by him, or by reason of
any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He or she shall, in
the discharge of his or her official duties, and upon proper identification,
have authority to enter into any building, structure, or premise at any
reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties, and issue any
permits that the governing body may direct. The Electrical Inspector may be
removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(`77 Code, § 1-217)
§ 31.17 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the installation
of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith, and without
malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall not himself
or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons,
or property as the result of any act required by him or her or by reason of any
act, or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He or she shall, in the
discharge of his or her official duties, and upon proper identification, have
authority to enter into any building, structure, or premise at any reasonable
hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and issue any permits that the
governing body may direct. The Plumbing Inspector may be removed at any time
for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(`77 Code, § 1-218)
§ 31.18 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections in any
area of the municipality to determine whether all buildings and structures are
in compliance with the municipal ordinances. He or she shall investigate all
complaints whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of a petition
alleging, and charging that a violation of the municipal ordinances exists, and
that a building, or structure is unfit, or unsafe for human habitation. The
Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying himself to enter,
inspect, survey, and investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.,
or at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner, or
occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all complaints received,
inspection reports, orders, and complaints issued. The records shall be
available for public inspection, and he shall prepare an annual report
including statistics based on the records kept. The Building Inspector shall
have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor, materials, or appliances
for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building, except where he
or she is the owner of a building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for
any dealer, or as an agent for the sale, lease, or rental of any real estate.
The Building Inspector shall report to the governing body as often as they may
deem necessary, and shall have such other duties, and issue such permits as
they may direct.  The Building Inspector may be removed at any time for good
and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(`77 Code, § 1-216)
§ 31.19 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established in the City of Ravenna the office of City
Administrator. The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer
of the city and shall serve as administrative agent for the Mayor and City
Council in the supervision of the offices and good government of the city. All
the departments of the city shall be under the administrative supervision and
direction of the City Administrator, and the Mayor and Council shall deal with
all departments of the city and employees through the City Administrator.
   (B)   The office of City Administrator shall be filled by appointment of the
Mayor by and with the consent of the majority of the City Council and shall
serve at their pleasure. The City Administrator need not be a resident of the
city at the time of appointment, but shall become a resident or become
relocated to within one mile of the city limits within such reasonable time as
the Council and Mayor may allow. The City Administrator shall receive such
compensation and allowances as the Mayor and Council may prescribe.
(Ord. 2005-O-001, passed 3-21-05)
§ 31.20 DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR. 
   (A)   In the performance of his role as chief administrative officer of the
city, the City Administrator shall have the following duties, responsibilities
and powers:
      (1)   The City Administrator shall take charge of and direct the
operations of all city departments.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall recommend to the Mayor and Council the
appointment and dismissal of all Department Heads and other employees over
which the City Administrator exercises supervisory responsibility. Appointment
or dismissal of Department Heads will be made upon the recommendation of the
Mayor and confirmation by the Council. In the absence of the Mayor, the City
Administrator may suspend an employee with or without pay, should the City
Administrator determine that any city employee is guilty of gross misconduct or
wanton dereliction of duty, until such time as the Mayor returns, or otherwise
exercises jurisdiction over such employee.
      (3)   The City Administrator shall recommend to the Mayor and Council any
changes the City Administrator deems appropriate in the employee manual.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall insure the enforcement of all laws and
ordinances, including zoning ordinances and subdivision regulations within the
city and within its extraterritorial jurisdiction insofar as their enforcement
is within the power of the city and consistent with policy of the Mayor and
City Council. The City Administrator shall have supervision of the Police
Department. Except for purposes of inquiry, the City Administrator shall deal
with the members of the Police Department through the Chief of Police, except
at such times as the Chief is unavailable.
      (5)   The City Administrator shall serve as the City Zoning Administrator
in order to interpret zoning laws and subdivision regulations.
      (6)   The City Administrator shall serve as the City Planning Director
and shall advise both the City Planning Commission and the City Council in
matters pertaining to the planning of the city and shall attend all meetings of
the Planning Commission.
      (7)   The City Administrator shall prepare and submit to the Mayor and
Council the annual budget together with recommendations and comments. The City
Administrator shall be responsible for the execution and administration of the
adopted budget. The City Administrator shall supervise the maintenance and
custody of all accounts and records of the city and shall provide the Mayor and
Council with a report of the financial condition of the city at such times as
the Mayor and City Council may require. The City Administrator shall oversee
the preparation and submission to the Mayor and Council, as of the end of the
fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the municipality for the preceding year.
      (8)   The City Administrator shall be responsible for the care and
maintenance of all city property, and shall exercise general supervision over
all public buildings, streets and other public property which are under the
control and jurisdiction of the Mayor and Council. The City Administrator shall
keep on file a current inventory of all property, real and personal, owned by
the municipality, and shall make recommendations regarding appropriate
insurance coverage for the municipality.
      (9)   The City Administrator shall attend all meetings of the Council and
advise on any matter concerning municipal affairs under the City
Administrator’s supervision or direction. The City Administrator shall also
attend such other meetings of the municipal departments, boards, and officials
as may be required to fulfill the City Administrator's responsibilities.
      (10)   The City Administrator shall supervise the performance of
contracts and agreements to which the city is a part.
      (11)   The City Administrator shall serve as purchasing agent of the
city, and no purchase will be made without the City Administrator's approval.
In no case will the City Administrator make or approve any such purchase unless
the funds for same have been duly appropriated by the Mayor and Council, and as
to those purchases where the amount involved exceeds $2,000 dollars, the City
Administrator shall first obtain the approval of the Mayor and Council.
      (12)   The City Administrator shall analyze all functions, duties and
activities of the various departments, divisions and services of the municipal
government and of all employees thereof, and make recommendations regarding the
same to the Mayor and Council.
      (13)   The City Administrator shall carry out the Mayor's and/or
Council's recommendations in coordinating the administrative functions and
operations of the various departments.
      (14)   The City Administrator shall procure facts, make investigations
and submit long-range improvement recommendations to the Mayor and Council.
      (15)   The City Administrator shall advise the Mayor and Council on
grants that may be available to aid the city, and aid in the preparation of
applications for those grants if approved by the Mayor and Council.
      (16)   The City Administrator shall recommend to the Mayor and Council
such measures as the City Administrator may deem necessary or expedient for the
good government and welfare of the city.
      (17)   The City Administrator shall perform such other duties as the
Mayor and Council may from time to time assign.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall take no part in any election held for the
purpose of electing the Mayor, members of the City Council or other elective
municipal office of the City of Ravenna, except for the casting of the City
Administrator's individual ballot. The City Administrator shall be an officer
of the city within the meaning of Neb. RS 17-107, and shall be subject to and
bound by the prohibitions therein contained. Before taking office, the City
Administrator shall file with the City Clerk a bond in favor of the city for
the faithful performance of the City Administrator's duties in the amount of
$25,000. The premium of said bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   The city may contract in writing with the City Administrator to occupy
such position and to assume such duties in writing, upon such terms and
conditions as the Council may approve.
   (D)   In the event the City Administrator serves pursuant to a written
contract, the City Administrator’s removal shall be governed by said writing.
In the event the City Administrator is serving by appointment and without a
written contract, the City Administrator may be removed at any time by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 2005-O-001, passed 3-21-05)
§ 31.21 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Water Commissioner, Wastewater Commissioner,
Street Department Commissioner and Landfill Commissioner are hereby combined
and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the City Council in §
31.02. The Public Works Director shall perform all of the duties of the above
appointed offices. In addition, he or she shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Public buildings. He or she shall be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of all city owned buildings, public restroom facilities,
and Auditorium. He or she shall be responsible for submitting at least every
six months a detailed report to the City Administrator, City Council and Mayor
a condition of said buildings and suggested improvements and repairs thereon.
He or she shall be responsible for the supervision and control of all
maintenance employees which may be hired, from time to time, by the City
Administrator, Mayor and City Council to maintain the city's public buildings.
      (2)   City-owned equipment. With the exception of the Police Department
vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair of all
city owned vehicles, equipment, tools and shop. He or she shall be responsible
for submitting at least every six months a detailed report to the City
Administrator, City Council and Mayor a condition of all city-owned vehicles,
equipment, and tools and suggested improvements and repairs thereon. He or she
shall be responsible for the supervision and control of all employees which may
be hired, from time to time, by the City Administrator, Mayor and City Council
to operate and maintain city owned equipment.
      (3)   Park Commissioner. He or she shall be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of all city-owned parks, shelters, picnic tables,
basketball courts, restrooms, cemeteries, trails, and swimming pool. He or she
shall be responsible for submitting at least every six months a detailed report
to the Park Board as to such improvements, additions and repairs which he or
she believes are needed. He or she shall be responsible for the supervision and
control all employees which may be hired, from time to time, by the City
Administrator, Mayor and City Council to maintain the city's public grounds.
However, the supervision and control of employees at the city's swimming pool
shall be the responsibility of the Park Board.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall provide a bond conditioned upon the
faithful discharge of duties which shall amount not less than the amount set by
resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2006-O-034, passed 12-4-06)
Cross reference:
   Municipal utilities; separate superintendents, see §
31.13
§ 31.22 PUBLIC WORKS ASSISTANT.
   The Public Works Assistant shall be under the direct supervision of the
Public Works Director and shall carry out the responsibilities assigned by the
Public Works Director. In the absence of the Public Works Director, he or she
shall perform the duties of the Public Works Director and duties of Water
Commissioner, Wastewater Commissioner, Street Department Commissioner, and
Landfill Commissioner, excepting however those functions, duties and acts as
may otherwise be expressly required by the Municipal Code or the statutes of
the State of Nebraska to be done, performed or carried out by the Public Works
Director in his or her official title as director of the utilities described
above, or other appointed officers of the municipality.
(Ord. 2006-O-037, passed 12-4-06)
§ 31.23 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   (A)   The duties shall be as follows: The Administrative Assistant shall be
the City Hall receptionist which duties include greeting the public and
answering the telephone. Other duties shall include typing, filing, issuing
licenses, Auditorium rental, assisting in keeping the accounts and records,
bill for, and collect all money to be received by the municipality's system of
utilities and sewer; and shall perform such other duties and administrative
acts for the municipality as may be requested or directed by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, City Administrator, or the Mayor, or as may hereafter be prescribed,
by resolution or motion, by the City Council, excepting, however, those
functions, duties, and acts as may otherwise be expressly required by this
Municipal Code or the statutes of the State of Nebraska to be done, performed,
or carried out by the City Clerk/Treasurer or other appointed officer of the
municipality.
   (B)   The Administrative Assistant shall provide a bond conditioned upon the
faithful discharge of duties which shall amount not be less than the amount set
by resolution of the City Council and on file in the office of the Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2007-O-010, passed 3-19-07)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Park and Recreation Commission
   
32.06   Cemetery Board
   
32.07   Housing Authority
   
32.08   Board of Public Trust
   
32.09   Health Clinic
   
32.10   Community Redevelopment Authority
Utility Departments
   
32.20   Water department; operation and funding
   
32.21   Sewer department; operation and funding
Fire Department
   
32.40   Operation and funding
   
32.41   Fire Chief
   
32.42   Membership
   
32.43   Records
   
32.44   Fires
   
32.45   Distant fires
   
32.46   Inspections
   
32.47   Notice of violation
   
32.48   Power of arrest
   
32.49   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
32.60   Duties
   
32.61   Reserve Officer bond
   
32.62   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.63   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
   
32.64   Excessive Force Policy
Cross-reference:
   Meetings, see §§
33.01 through
33.15
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who
shall be residents of the municipality and who shall serve terms of four years.
The board members shall be appointed by a majority vote of the members of the
City Council. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a
member of the Library Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date
of a change in the number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors
to those members shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In
cases of vacancies by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council
shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay
or compensation for any services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
      (2)   The City Council may require the members of the Library Board to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a President, a
Secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
(`77 Code, § 2-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority; regulations, see Neb. RS 51-202
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City
Council. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the
municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over
which the municipality exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such
area. If it is determined by the City Council that a sufficient number of
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. For purposes of this section, a sufficient number of
residents shall mean 500 residents. The term of each regular member shall be
three years, except that three regular members of the first Commission shall
serve for terms of one year, three for terms of two years, and three for terms
of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors
are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the City Council,
be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the members
elected to the City Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance
in office, or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise
than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor.
   (B)    All regular members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to
serve on the Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of
the Commission may be required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give
bond in a sum set by resolution of the Council, and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Commission’s first
meeting in January of each year, the Commission shall organize by selecting
from its membership a chairperson and secretary. The term of the chairperson
and the secretary shall be one year, and they shall be eligible for reelection.
No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the chairperson
and secretary of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep
the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same
with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection during office hours. The Commission shall be funded by the City
Council from time to time out of the General Fund. The expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the City Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts. A number of
Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members appointed to
the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except the City Council may require the Commission to meet more
frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may call for a meeting when
necessary to deal with business pending before the Commission. Special meetings
may also be held upon the call of any three members of the Commission. The
Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business
and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and
determinations, which shall be a public record. The Commission shall make and
adopt plans for the physical development of the municipality, including any
areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation
to the planning of the municipality, and shall carry out the other duties and
exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS 19-929. All actions by the Commission
shall be subject to the review and supervision of the Mayor and City Council.
The Commission shall make its recommendations to the City Council so that they
are received by the City Council within 30 days after the Commission begins
consideration of a matter relating to the comprehensive development plan,
capital improvements, building codes, subdivision development, the annexation
of territory, or zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for making such
reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from time to
time, designate.
   (C)   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members
of the City Council, shall appoint one alternate member to the Commission. The
alternate member shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other
municipal office. The term of the alternate member shall be three years, and he
or she shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed and approved.
The alternate member may be removed from office in the same manner as a regular
member. If the alternate member position becomes vacant other than through the
expiration of the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion
of the term by the Mayor with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the City Council. The alternate member may attend any meeting and
may serve as a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time
when less than the full number of regular Commission members is present and
capable of voting.
(`77 Code, § 2-202) (Am. Ord. 328, passed 4-7-80; Am. Ord. 1994-O-017, passed
8-1-94; Am. Ord. 1995-O-017, passed 5-1-95)
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive planning regulations adopted by reference, see
Chapter 151
Statutory reference:
   General provisions on planning and zoning, see Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-933
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a Board
of Adjustment which shall consist of five regular members plus one additional
member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of
the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member shall be
appointed for a term of three years and shall be removable for cause by the
Mayor and City Council upon written charges and after public hearings.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term
becomes vacant. One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed
from the membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on
the Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her
immediate loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of
another Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not
include a member who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the
city, the first vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment after the
effective date of this section shall be filled by the appointment of a person
who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such
time as more than 200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all
times, at least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside the
corporate boundaries of the city but within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve
as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council, and conditioned upon the faithful performance
of their duties. The Board shall organize at its first meeting each year after
the City Council meeting when appointments are regularly made and elect from
its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of
Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board.
   (C)    The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of Neb.
RS 19-901 to 19-914. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Special
meetings may be also held upon the call of any three members of the Board or
through a decision made by the Chairperson to hold such a meeting. A majority
of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep complete
and accurate minutes of all Board meetings, showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
to keep records of the Board’s examinations and other official actions, all of
which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be public
record. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing
such other duties as the Mayor and City Council may designate.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   (1)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision
of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
      (2)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the administrative officer. Such appeal may be taken within a reasonable time,
and the filing of an application as provided by the rules of the Board, by
filing with the officer from whom such appeal is taken and with the Board a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof and payment of a fee of $100.
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of the zoning
regulations, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   Where by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (F)   (1)   No variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds
that:
         (a)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
         (b)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
         (c)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
         (d)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
      (2)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   In exercising its powers, the Board may, in conformity with Neb. RS
19-901 through 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such
order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that
end shall have all powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The
concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order, requirement, decision, or determination of any such administrative
official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under any such regulation or to effect any variation in such
regulation. Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in
Neb. RS 19-912.
(`77 Code, §§ 8-152–8-154) (Neb. RS 19-910)
(Am. Ord. 06-O-025, passed 7-10-06)
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive planning regulations adopted by reference, see
Chapter 151
Statutory reference:
   Authority, duties, powers, see Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910
   Authority to request county board to serve as municipal Board of Adjustment,
see Neb. RS 19-912.01
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   A Board of Health is created consisting of four members: The Mayor,
who shall serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two
other members appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council. One
member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be found who is
willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if appointed, shall
be the Board's medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a Chief of Police,
the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and quarantine
officer.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation
and, except for the Mayor, President of the Council, and Chief of Police, shall
serve a one-year term of office, unless reappointed. The Board shall reorganize
at the first meeting each year after the annual appointments are made. No
member of the Board shall hold more than one position on the Board.
   (C)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the City Clerk where they shall be available
for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund. The Board shall
meet at such times as the City Council may designate. Special meetings may be
held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
   (D)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and shall
enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect of law,
to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them, and may
provide fines and punishments for the violation thereof. The Board shall have
power to and shall make all needful rules and regulations relating to matters
of sanitation of the city. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the
occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the
city relating to nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board
shall also have control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of
sick, and matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions
as may be provided by ordinance of the city.
   (E)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct. All members of the Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such other duties as the
City Council may, from time to time, designate.
(`77 Code, § 2-203) (Am. Ord. 307, passed 7-10-78; Am. Ord. 1997-O-18, passed
8-4-97)
Cross-reference:
   Health and Safety, see
Chapter 93
Statutory reference:
    Board of Health required; powers and duties, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 32.05 PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)    The Mayor shall appoint the Board of Park Commissioners with final
approval of each Commissioner coming from the City Council. The Board shall
consist of five members, who shall be resident freeholders in the municipality.
The members of the Board shall serve a one-year term of office unless
reappointed and shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the
discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the City Council, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties.
   (B)   At the Board's first meeting after annual appointments are made, the
Board shall organize by selecting from its number a Chairperson and Secretary.
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where
they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A
majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two of the
Board members.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board to take the immediate charge of all
parks and recreational facilities belonging to the municipality. The Board
shall establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, use, and
operation of the same. All employees of the municipality doing work in or for
the municipal park shall be under the supervision and direction of the Board.
All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and control of the City
Council. The Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing
such other duties as the City Council may, from time to time, designate. No
member of the City Council shall serve as a member of the Park Commission while
serving a term of office as a member of the City Council. No member of the Park
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of
the Board.
(`77 Code, § 2-204) (Am. Ord. 1999-O-002, passed 3-1-99)
Cross-reference:
   Park regulations, see §§
90.01 through
90.03
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-952
§ 32.06 CEMETERY BOARD.
   The Mayor with the consent of the City Council shall appoint the Cemetery
Board which shall consist of six members who are residents of the municipality
and who shall serve without compensation for a term of three years. Two members
shall be appointed each year and may be required in the discretion of the City
Council, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the City Council, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the first meeting
in June of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from its membership
a Chairperson and Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
three members of the Board. The Board shall have the general care, management,
and supervision of the municipal cemetery with the power and authority to limit
and regulate the number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person;
to prescribe rules for enclosing, adorning, and erecting monuments and
tombstones on cemetery lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use
thereof; provided, no religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of
lots, the burial therein, and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass
rules and regulations for the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe
penalties and fines for violations thereof. The Board shall use all revenue
received from the sale of lots, gifts, or by devise for the care, management
and administration of the cemetery. All actions of the Board shall be subject
to the review and supervision of the City Council and it shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such additional duties as the City
Council may designate. No member of the City Council shall serve as a member of
the Board while serving a term of office as a member of the City Council. No
member of the Cemetery Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403) (`77 Code, § 2-205)
§ 32.07 HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall appoint five persons who shall constitute
the Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a
five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly appointed;
provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. A
certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and such certificate shall be
conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such Commissioner. A
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or
she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses,
incurred in discharge of his or her duties. Three Commissioners shall
constitute a quorum of the Authority for the purpose of conducting its
business, exercising its powers, and for all other purposes. Action may be
taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of the Commissioners
present unless in any case the by-laws of the Authority shall require a larger
number.
      (2)   The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive
director who shall serve as ex officio secretary of the Authority. The
Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law
officer of the municipality, for such services as it may require. It may employ
technical experts and such other officers, agents, and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations, and
terms of office. The Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its
agents or employees as it may deem proper.
      (3)   During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no
commissioner, officer, or employee of the Housing Authority shall voluntarily
acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property
included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or
proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any such commissioner,
officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily
or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment
as commissioner, officer, or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his
or her interest in writing to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be
entered upon the minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate
in any action by the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he
or she has any such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
      (4)   The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or
misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send
a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement
containing the charges against him or her. Unless within ten days from the
receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with the Clerk/Treasurer a
request for a hearing before the City Council, the Commissioner shall be deemed
as removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk/
Treasurer, the City Council shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner
shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the City Council
shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the
removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her
position.
      (5)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the City Council on all such information.
(`77 Code, § 2-206)
   (B)   The Municipal Housing Authority established under State law prior to
December 25, 1969, shall have continued existence after that date under the
Nebraska Housing Authority Law. All Commissioners of such Authority and all
officers, legal counsel, technical experts, directors, and other appointees or
employees of such authority, holding office or employment by virtue of prior
state law on December 25, 1969, shall be deemed to have been appointed or
employed by the Mayor under the provisions of the Nebraska Housing Authority
Law and shall from that date forward conduct their operations consistent with
the provisions of that Act.
(`77 Code, § 2-207)
   (C)   The Municipal Housing Authority is owned by the municipality and
operated through the Housing Authority Commission. The Housing Authority shall
constitute a body corporate and politic, and shall have all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions
of the Nebraska Housing Authority Law.
(`77 Code, § 2-208)
   (D)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the definitions and terms
set out in the Nebraska Statutes relating to Housing Authorities under the
Nebraska Housing Authority Law are hereby adopted by reference as they now
exist or may hereafter be amended.
(`77 Code, § 2-209)
   (E)   The Authority shall at all times observe the following duties with
respect to rentals and tenant selection.
      (1)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low income, and
displaced persons in need.
      (2)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, religion, color, creed, national origin, or
ancestry.
      (3)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any
dwelling in the housing project if the applicant has an annual income which
equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority has conclusively determined to
be sufficient to enable one to secure, safe, sanitary, and uncongested dwelling
accommodations within the area served by the Authority and to provide an
adequate standard of living.
      (4)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting
of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
      (5)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
         (a)   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps, and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; or
         (b)   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
      (6)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or
persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period
of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly, or handicapped persons of low income.
      (7)   All persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
section and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this section concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter.
      (8)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to inquire
into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal, and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
      (9)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
(`77 Code, § 2-210)
   (F)   The Housing Authority may establish from time to time rules and
regulations consistent with the purposes of this section concerning the
priority of eligible applicants for occupancy. The Authority may give
preferential treatment to applicants who are servicemen or veterans, relatives
of servicemen or veterans, to disabled servicemen or veterans, the elderly or
disabled, those in urgent need of adequate housing or who have no adequate
source of income; provided, that in any such system of priority, displaced
persons in need shall have a priority ahead of all other such persons; and
provided further, that no tenant in good standing then in occupancy shall have
his or her tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling units for classes or
categories of applicants as the authority may establish.
(`77 Code, § 2-211)
   (G)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual
report at the second regular meeting in January of each year to the City
Council.
(`77 Code, § 2-212)
§ 32.08 BOARD OF PUBLIC TRUST.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created for the city a Board of Public Trust
with the powers and duties herein set forth. The Board of Public Trust of the
city shall be designated the Board of Public Trust of Ravenna, Nebraska.
      (2)   The Board of Public Trust shall consist of five members, who shall
be resident freeholders of the city. The members shall be elected by the City
Council. The term of office of each member shall be five years, except at the
time of the establishment of the Board of Public Trust, one member shall be
elected for a term of office of one year, one for a term of two years, one for
a term of three years, one for a term of four years, and one for a term of five
years. Thereafter, one member shall be elected each year for a term of five
years.
      (3)   Vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be filled in like
manner as regular members of the Board are elected.
      (4)   It shall be the function and duty of the Board of Public Trust to
receive, control, manage, and safeguard all donations in trust to the city in
conformity with any instrument or instruments creating such public trust funds.
(`77 Code, § 2-213) (Ord. 245, passed 5-10-71)
   (B)   (1)   The Ravenna Emergency Unit Fund is hereby created. Such Fund
shall consist of all contributions to and fees charged by the Board of Public
Trust of the city for the use of emergency units in transporting persons. All
such amounts raised by the Ravenna Emergency Unit Fund are hereby donated, in
trust, to the Ravenna Board of Public Trust as established by division (A)
above for the purposes enumerated below, and under the terms and conditions for
management as set forth below.
      (2)   The permissible uses of such trust fund raised by the Ravenna
Emergency Unit Fund shall be the following:
         (a)   The purchase of emergency units, or any parts thereof, or
equipment for such units;
         (b)   The repair and maintenance of such emergency units; or
         (c)   Any other purposes as set forth from time to time by ordinance
of the Mayor and City Council.
      (3)   The Board of Public Trust shall have the duty to invest the funds
raised by the Ravenna Emergency Unit Fund in investments of the nature which
men of prudence, discretion and intelligence acquire or retain in dealing with
the property of another, as required by Neb. RS 30-3201. The income from such
investments shall likewise be invested by the Trustees. The Board of Public
Trust shall pay over such trust funds and the income therefrom to the city upon
the vote of the Ravenna City Council to expend such funds for the uses and
purposes set forth above; provided, however, expenditures of $500 or less need
not be approved by the City Council. The trustees shall pay and disburse such
portions of the income and the corpus at such times and in such amounts as
shall from time to time be ordered or directed by the City Council. The
Trustees shall be fully protected in acting upon any such order or direction of
the City Council, and shall not be responsible for any act or omission of the
City Council.
(`77 Code, § 2-214) (Ord. 290, passed 5-12-77)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization for board of public trust, see Neb. RS 17-501
§ 32.09 HEALTH CLINIC.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Ravenna Community Health Clinic
Building Fund to receive all gifts, contributions, and devises made for the
purpose of maintaining, repairing, improving, and remodeling such Ravenna
Health Clinic Building and premises, and to receive all funds, raised by
taxation for the aforesaid purposes in Neb. RS 17-964.
   (B)   In accordance with Neb. RS 17-964, the Medical Clinic shall be managed
by the Mayor and City Council, or the Mayor and City Council may delegate their
management to either a five member facility board, if one is created by the
Mayor and Council pursuant to Neb. RS 17-966 or the Community Redevelopment
Authority of the city.
   (C)   The Clerk/Treasurer of the city is hereby appointed as custodian of
the Ravenna Community Health Clinic Building Fund.
(`77 Code, § 2-215) (Ord. 429, passed 1-5-87; Am. Ord. 445, passed 10-5-87; Am.
Ord. 2009-O-003, passed 4-16-09)
§ 32.10 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment
Authority of the City of Ravenna, Nebraska.
   (B)   Officers. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall
appoint five persons who shall constitute the Authority. The terms of office of
the members of the Authority initially appointed shall be for one year, two
years, three years, four years, and five years, as designated by the Mayor in
making the respective appointments. As the terms of the members of the
Authority expire, the Mayor, with the approval of the governing body of the
city, shall appoint or reappoint a member of the Authority for a term of five
years to succeed the member whose term expires. The Authority shall organize by
electing one of its members Chairperson of the Authority, and another of its
members Vice Chairperson. The presence of three members shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. The Authority shall adopt rules for the
transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which records shall be made
available for public inspection during regular business hours.
   (C)   Director. Community redevelopment authorities of Ravenna may secure
the services of a Director, Community Redevelopment Administrator, or
Coordinator, and other officers and employees as may be desired through
contract with the Department of Economic Development upon terms which are
mutually agreeable. The Director, when appointed, shall serve as Ex Officio
Secretary of the Community Redevelopment Authority, and shall perform such
duties as may be assigned by the Authority, including the necessary
administrative functions described in the statutes under which the Authority
has been created.
   (D)   Vacancies. Vacancies shall be filled for any unexpired term in the
same manner as the original appointment. Members of the Authority shall hold
office until their successors have been appointed and qualified. All members
are to serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for all necessary
expenses incurred.
   (E)   Conflict. No member or employee of any Authority established under
this section shall have any interest directly or indirectly in any contract for
property, materials, or services to be required by such Authority.
   (F)   Funds. 
      (1)   All income, revenue, profits and other funds received by the
Authority shall be deposited with the City Treasurer as Ex Officio Treasurer of
such Authority without commingling such money with any other money under his or
her control and disbursed by him or her by check, draft or order only upon
warrants, orders, or requisitions by the Chairperson of such Authority or other
person authorized by such Authority, which shall state distinctly the purpose
for which the same are drawn. The Authority shall keep an accurate account of
all its activities and of all receipts and disbursements and make an annual
report of such activities, receipts, and disbursements to the governing body of
the city. A permanent record shall be kept by the Authority of all warrants,
orders or requisitions so drawn, showing the date, amount, consideration and to
whom payable. When paid, the same shall be canceled and kept on file by the
City Treasurer.
      (2)   The Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its activities
and of all receipts and disbursements and make an annual report of such
activities, receipts, and disbursements to the governing body of the city.
   (G)   The Authority shall be vested with all the powers, duties and
responsibilities set forth in Neb. RS Chapter 18, Article 21, the Community
Development Law, Sections 18-2101 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-O-036, passed 11-2-15; Am. Ord. 2018-O-005, passed 5-7-18)
UTILITY DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.20 WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the water department through the City
Council or its authorized agent. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the water department may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law,
on the taxable value of all taxable property within the corporate limits that
is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the water
fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The City
Council or its authorized agent shall have the direct management and control of
the water department. The City Council shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the water
department. The City Council shall set the rates to be charged for services
rendered and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(`77 Code, § 3-101)
Cross-reference:
   Water regulations, see
Chapter 52
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
   Authority to assess rates, see neb. RS 17-538
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-534, 17-538, 17-544, and 17-545
   Waterworks acquisition and construction authorized, see Neb. RS 17-531
§ 32.21 SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the City Council or its authorized agent.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the municipality, the City Council may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all the taxable property in the municipality. The revenue from
the tax shall be known as the water and sewer maintenance fund and shall be
used exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and
sewer system.
   (C)   The City Council or its authorized agent shall have the direct
management and control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the
duties of the office, and shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the department subject
to the supervision and review of the City Council. The City Council shall set
the rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a
copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
(`77 Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 745, passed 7-6-99)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer regulations, see
Chapter 53
Statutory reference:
   Sewage and drainage districts; authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-149
   Authority to levy tax and establish rates, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
    The municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and Fire Fighters. The City Council, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed
by state law on the taxable value of all taxable property within the
municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Fire Department
Fund. The Fund shall be at all times in the possession of the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer. In addition, the municipality has the authority to enter into
agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District for the mutual aid and
protection of the residents of each.
(`77 Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to create; rules of duty and government, see Neb. RS 17-147
   Fire station erection and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
   Taxing authority for voluntary departments, see Neb. RS 17-718
§ 32.41 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or
other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council at
the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the
City Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.42 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than 25 members for each Fire
Department Company subject to the review and approval of the City Council. All
vacancies shall be filled in this manner. The members shall be considered to be
employees of the municipality for the purpose of providing them with workers'
compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be entitled to a term life
insurance policy in the amount of at least $5,000 for death from any cause to
age 65, and such policy shall, at the option of the individual fireman, be
convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65, provided that the
fire fighters covered are actively and faithfully performing the duties of
their position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be
decided by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way
they may decide, subject to the review of the City Council. They may hold
meetings and engage in social activities with the approval of the City Council.
The secretary shall upon request keep a record of all meetings and shall make a
report to the City Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire
Department. The City Council may, for services rendered, compensate or reward
any member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by resolution.
All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police personnel and shall have full power and authority
to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or the laws
of the State of Nebraska.
(`77 Code, § 3-302) (Am. Ord. 302, passed 10-7-85)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to prescribe rules of duty with penalties, see Neb. RS 17-
147
   General regulations, see Neb. RS 35-101 et seq.
   Life insurance required, see Neb. RS 35-108
   Membership rolls and filings, see Neb. RS 35-102
   Witness fees and expenses, see Neb. RS 33-139.01
§ 32.43 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of such records to the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall
include the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether
criminal conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property
damage, he shall include the information of whether such losses were covered by
insurance, and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the
public at any reasonable time.
(`77 Code, § 3-301)
§ 32.44 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the municipality, and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
(`77 Code, § 3-303)
§ 32.45 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Fire Chief, such fire equipment of the
municipality as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the municipality shall be considered as acting in
the performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the municipality when directed
to do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for such Chief and
in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the municipality as may be
designated by the City Council.
(`77 Code, §§ 3-304, 3-305)
§ 32.46 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the City
Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year in outlying districts and four times a year within the fire
limits, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the interiors
of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection shall
be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits,
in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, and utilizing of liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the
odorization of said gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin
plastics, nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous material that may now or
hereafter exist.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to conduct inspections, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 32.47 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the municipal code has been violated, the Fire
Chief shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of
the premise where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premise. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, such order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to
the owner's last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premise or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five days after such order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review and it shall
be the duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days
nor more than ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The City Council shall then affirm, modify, or
rescind the order as safety and justice may require and the decision shall then
be final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law
or equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident
that reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to
the probable hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief.
A copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the
owner, occupant, or manager making the appeal.
(`77 Code, § 3-314)
§ 32.48 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the fire
fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or
disorderly manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual
powers and authority of municipal police officers to command all persons to
assist them in the performance of their duties.
(`77 Code, § 3-309)
§ 32.49 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
    It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
$50. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such officers shall
especially make an investigation and report as to whether such fire was the
result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation shall begin
immediately after the occurrence of such fire and the State Fire Marshal shall
have the right to supervise and direct the investigation whenever he or she
deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the investigation of fires
occurring within the municipality shall immediately notify the State Fire
Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire furnish him or
her with a written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and origin
of the fire, and such further information as he or she may call for.
(`77 Code, § 3-310)
Statutory reference:
   Investigation and report required, see Neb. RS 81-506
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.60 DUTIES.
    The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole
time to the municipal affairs and interests of the municipality and to the
preservation of peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The department
shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall
be the duty of the department to protect the rights of persons and property.
There shall be a proper police force at all fires as allowed by the Chief of
Police. The department shall take notice of all nuisances, impediments,
obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business places, and
residences of the municipality. The department shall execute, or cause to be
executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be
brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of
Police and all regular and special police officers shall become thoroughly
conversant with the laws of the municipality and shall see that the same are
strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons
for violation of the same.
(`77 Code, § 3-401)
Cross-reference:
   Chief of Police, see §
31.09
   Police officers, see §
31.10
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish police force, see Neb. RS 17-124
§ 32.61 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer by the individual appointed, or a blanket surety bond
arranged and paid for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the
City Council has been filed. Such bonds shall be subject to the provisions of
Neb. RS Chapter 11, Article 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1438
through 81-1446
§ 32.62 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Every municipal law enforcement officer shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of this state and the municipality or otherwise
perform the functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary
jurisdiction. PRIMARY JURISDICTION shall mean the geographic area within
territorial limits of the municipality.
    (B)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond the territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction, shall have
the power and authority to enforce the laws of this state or any legal
ordinance of any city or incorporated village or otherwise perform the
functions of his or her office, including the authority to arrest and detain
suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing the functions within the
territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer shall have such enforcement
and arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE shall mean:
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime;
and
      (4)   If the municipality, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, enters into a contract with any other municipality or county
for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the municipality shall provide
liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided
in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (C)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the municipality in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for such disaster, emergency, or civil defense
emergency when such program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of
this state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where
they are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office,
including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws
or performing the functions within the territorial limits of their primary
jurisdiction. The municipality shall self-insure or contract for insurance
against any liability for personal injuries or property damage that may be
incurred by it or by its personnel as the result of any movement of its
personnel outside the limits of the municipality pursuant to this subsection.
(Neb. RS 29-215, 81-829.65) (`77 Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 1995-O-018, passed 5-1-
95)
Statutory reference:
   Other arrest powers, see Neb. RS 17-118
§ 32.63 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   Notice. No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
demoted, removed or suspended with or without pay, unless notice and a copy of
the written accusation or summary of the reasons why the demotion, removal or
suspension with or without pay is being investigated, be given in writing to
the police officer, including the chief, by personal service or by certified
mail at least 24 hours prior to the hearing date. The notice shall provide the
police officer with the following information:
      (1)   The date, time and location of the hearing;
      (2)   A copy of the written accusation or summary of the reasons why the
investigation may lead to a demotion, removal or suspension with or without
pay;
      (3)   The police officer shall be informed of his or her right to have an
attorney or representative retained by him or her, present with him or her at
all hearings or proceedings;
      (4)   The police officer shall be informed that he or she, or his or her
attorney or representative, shall have the right to be heard and present
evidence;
      (5)   The police officer shall be informed that he or she, or his or her
attorney or representative, has the right to record all hearings or proceedings
regarding the written accusation;
      (6)   The police officer shall be informed that the individual imposing
the action is also authorized to record the hearing.
   (B)   Procedure for conducting initial hearing. At the initial hearing:
      (1)   The police officer shall have the right to have an attorney or
representative retained by him present with him at the hearing;
      (2)   The initial questions will be asked by the individual imposing the
action, and after the initial questioning, the police officer or his or her
attorney or representative will have the right to be heard and present
evidence;
      (3)   The attorney shall not have the ability to interfere or interrupt
the questioning by the individual imposing the action, but shall be able to ask
questions after the initial questioning is completed;
      (4)   This hearing may be recorded by either party.
   (C)   Appeal time limits.  
      (1)   If, after the investigation, the individual imposing the action
demotes, removes or suspends the police officer with or without pay, any police
officer so demoted, removed, or suspended with or without pay, may within ten
days after being notified of such demotion, removal, or suspension, file with
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer a written demand for an appeal hearing before the
City Council. The City Council shall set the matter for hearing not less than
ten nor more than 14 days after the filing of the written demand for a hearing.
The City Council shall give the police officer written notice of the hearing
not less than seven nor more than ten days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   No demotion, removal, or suspension with or without pay can take
place until the appeal process has been exhausted except that nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory suspension or immediate
removal from duty of an officer by the appropriate authority, pending the
hearing authorized by this section in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of
duty, or disobedience or order.
   (D)   Appeal hearing.
      (1)   Each party must disclose the identity of witnesses and provide a
copy of exhibits to the City Clerk at least three working days prior to the
appeal hearing.
      (2)   At the appeal hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   To be represented by counsel;
         (d)   Record all proceedings.
      (3)   At the appeal hearing, the individual imposing the action shall
have the right to:
         (a)   To present evidence including witnesses and documentary
evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine witnesses; and
         (c)   Right to be heard;
         (d)   To be represented by counsel;
         (e)   Record all proceedings.
   (E)   Standard of decision. The decision of the City Council shall be based
upon its determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the
hearing, the challenged demotion, removal or suspension with or without pay was
necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police
Department in the performance of its duties under the state statutes.
   (F)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge. The failure of the City
Councii to act within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected
Councii members to vote to reverse or modify the suspension, demotion, removal,
or discharge shall be construed as a vote to uphold the suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge.
   (G)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107) (`77 Code, § 3-403) (Am. Ord. 2010-O-015, passed 12-27-10; Am.
Ord. 2011-O-003, passed 3-21-11)
§ 32.64 EXCESSIVE FORCE POLICY.
   (A)   Policy. 
      (1)   The use of physical force by law enforcement officers has been
granted by the Revised Nebraska State Statutes with certain restrictions. This
authority is one which is constantly under scrutiny and is directly responsible
for a growing number of civil suits against police officers and the agencies
they represent.
      (2)   At times, members of the Police Department are confronted with
situations where control by force is required to effect arrests or to protect
public safety. All officers should first attempt to achieve control though
advisement, warnings, persuasion, or in cases where appropriate, to retreat and
contain. However, in situations where resistance to police action or a threat
to life is encountered and reasonable alternatives have been exhausted or would
be clearly ineffective, physical force may be used. The type and degree of
force used will be reasonable and based upon the circumstances of the
situation. Only that force which is reasonable and necessary to accomplish a
police function shall be applied. All force used by an officer to gain control
of a situation will cease immediately upon the accomplishment of the police
function. The use of excessive force either lethal or non-lethal, will not be
tolerated by this Department. Any officer in performing a police function shall
adhere to the policy of this Department pertaining to the use of force. This
policy is without exception.
   (B)   Lethal force. Shall mean force used with the purpose of causing or
which will create a substantial risk of causing death or serious bodily harm.
The discharge of a firearm will be considered to be use of lethal force,
however, lethal force can also be expanded to include the use of non-lethal
weapons and force, if the intent in their use is to cause serious bodily harm.
      (1)   It shall be the policy of the Police Department that all officers
shall exhaust every other reasonable means before resorting to the use of
firearms. An officer may discharge his or her firearm when it reasonably
appears to be the only remaining means in the following situations:
         (a)   In the defense of the life of the officer or another person;
         (b)   To prevent the commission of a dangerous felony such as murder,
rape, armed robbery, and first degree arson; or
         (c)   In affecting an arrest where the resistance and struggle has
reached a state where it is endangering the life of the officer or any other
person.
      (2)   A police officer may never fire upon a person who is called upon to
halt upon mere suspicion and who, without making resistance, simply runs or
drives away to avoid arrest for a misdemeanor or for the violation of city
ordinance. There is always the danger of injuring innocent persons when firing
a weapon and officers are admonished to always use the utmost caution when it
lawfully becomes necessary to fire.
      (3)   An officer may draw his or her firearm and hold it in readiness
when engaged in the performance of his or her duties or in imminent peril or
danger of his or her own life or the life of some other person. Officers shall
never display firearms unnecessarily or draw them in any public place except
for official use or inspection. In effecting the arrest of felony offenders,
the officer may display a weapon for the purpose of obtaining and maintaining
control.
      (4)   Warning shots fired into the air or ground in an attempt to cause a
fleeing suspect to stop or surrender are a danger to innocent citizens and
officers are prohibited except in the following situations:
         (a)   Shots fired intended to stop a threatened felonious attack upon
an officer or innocent victim; or
         (b)   Shots fired for the purpose of summoning aid when more
conventional communication is not effective or available and the safety of
other persons is considered.
      (5)   The use of firearms to kill animals which are seriously injured or
pose a real threat to the safety of humans may be approved by a supervisor when
no other disposition is practical and the safety of people has been given prime
consideration.
      (6)   Officers should never surrender their firearms unless as a last
resort and only after using every tactical means at their disposal. Surrender
of a weapon rarely de-escalates a serious situation and can, in fact, put an
officer and innocent persons in greater jeopardy.
   (C)   Non-lethal force. Is that force which is intended to control a
situation or overcome physical resistance an Officer may encounter when
attempting to carry out a police function. Its use is preferable only to lethal
force and should only be used after all other reasonable alternatives have been
exhausted or would be clearly ineffective.
   (D)   Notification of use of force. When an officer uses force that results
in the death or injury requiring medical attention of another person, the
officer shall immediately notify his or her supervisor and the Chief of Police.
The officer shall then prepare a letter explaining the circumstances involving
the use of force and direct the letter to the Chief of Police.
      (1)   Any time an officer discharges a firearm in the line of duty other
than practice or qualification, the officer shall immediately notify his or her
supervisor and the Chief of Police. The officer shall then prepare a letter
explaining the circumstances related to the discharge of the firearm and direct
the letter to the Chief of Police. The only exception to this is when an animal
is destroyed that is seriously injured or poses a real threat to the safety of
people. In such an instance, the officer shall prepare usual reports
documenting the circumstances of the incident.
      (2)   All cases involving the use of force shall be reviewed by the Chief
of Police or his or her designated representative and a determination made if
the force used was appropriate or excessive. If the force used was justified,
the investigation will be ended and documented as justified. If the force used
is found to be excessive, the officer shall be subject to disciplinary action.
      (3)   All cases involving the use of force resulting in the death of a
person will be investigated by a law enforcement agency to be determined by the
County Attorney.
(Ord. 2016-O-019, passed 12-5-16)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Public
   
33.03   When; where; quorum
   
33.04   Special meetings
   
33.05   Videoconferencing
   
33.06   Teleconferencing
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Emergency meetings
   
33.09   Minutes
   
33.10   Votes
   
33.11   Notice to news media
   
33.12   Public participation
   
33.13   Order of business
   
33.14   Change in office
   
33.15   Organizational meetings
   
33.16   Request for information; public records
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.30   Bonds; form
   
33.31   Oath of office; municipal officials
Compensation
   
33.45   Municipal officials
   
33.46   Conflict of interest
Intergovernmental Risk Management
   
33.60   Authority
Personnel Regulations
   
33.75   Personnel Manual adopted by reference.
Code of Ethics
   
33.80   Declaration of policy
   
33.81   Definitions
   
33.82   Standards of conduct
   
33.83   Prohibition on conflict of interest
   
33.84   Conflict of interest; disclosure
   
33.85   Interest of spouse
   
33.86   Misuse of official information
   
33.87   Disposition of alleged violations; hearings
   
33.88   Oaths and requests for information
   
33.89   Sanctions
   
33.90   Officer defined
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETINGS. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(2)) (`77 Code, § 1-501)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council of the municipality;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies, now or hereafter created by
constitution, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies
unless a quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless
such subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action
on behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409(1)) (`77 Code, § 1-502) (Am. Ord. 1993-O-002, passed 2-1-93)
§ 33.02 PUBLIC.
   (A)   All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a municipal
public building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings
shall be held in the public building in which the City Council usually holds
such meetings unless the publicized notice required by this section designates
some other public building or other specified place.
   (B)   (1)   The advance publicized notice of all public convened meetings
shall be simultaneously transmitted to all members of the City Council and to
the public by a method designated by the City Council or by the Mayor if the
City Council has not designated a method. The notice shall contain the time and
specific place for each meeting and either an enumeration of the agenda
subjects known at the time of the notice or a statement that such an agenda
that is kept continually current shall be readily available for public
inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer during normal
business hours. Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not
be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting
or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council
scheduled outside the corporate limits of the municipality. The City Council
shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency
nature only at such public meetings.
      (2)   The publicized notice of all regular meetings shall be by
publication in the Ravenna News. Advanced publicized notice of special meetings
shall be in the Ravenna News, if available, or by posting in three public
places within the municipality. Items for discussion at the special meeting
shall be identified on the notice of the special meeting. The Council shall
have the right to modify the agenda to include items of an emergency nature
only at the public meeting.
   (C)   The minutes of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall include the record
of the manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was
given, a statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then known
subjects was communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings, the
names of each member of the City Council present or absent at each convened
meeting, and the substance of all matters discussed. The minutes of the City
Council shall be a public record open to inspection by the public upon request
at any reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. Requests
for minutes, action taken on any documents and other information shall be
provided through a Request of Information form as provided in §
33.16 of this Municipal Code.
   (D)   Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be taken only by roll call vote of the City Council in open session. The
record of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall show how each member voted or
that the member was absent and did not vote.
(`77 Code, § 1-503) (Am. Ord. 2007-O-22, passed 8-7-07)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see Neb. RS 84-1409
   Meetings required to be public, see Neb. RS 84-1408
   Minutes, roll call, secret ballot, see Neb. RS 84-1413
   Notice, agenda, and the like, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 33.03 WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   Meetings are at the City Hall, City Council Chambers, on the first
Monday of each month. If there is a holiday on the first Monday, the regular
meeting shall be had on the next Monday following.
   (B)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a smaller number
may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent members.
Whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent for and
compelled to attend.
(`77 Code, § 1-514)
   (C)   Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
any business.
(Neb. RS 17-105)
   (D)   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer
shall proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is
present. If a quorum is present, the Council shall be called to order by the
Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the President of the Council. In the
absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council, the City Council
members shall elect a President pro tempore.
(Ord. 400, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 482, passed 10-1-90; Am. Ord. 1996-O-001,
passed 1-8-96)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of times for meetings, see Neb. RS 17-105
§ 33.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by three members of the
City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing.
The call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon
the journal by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall notify the Council members of the special meeting, stating the
time and its purpose.
(`77 Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 478, passed 9-15-86)
Statutory reference:
   Notice requirements for public meetings, see Neb. RS 84-1411
§ 33.05 VIDEOCONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, the Joint Public Agency Act, or the Municipal Cooperative Financing Act or
of the City Council of a risk management pool or its advisory committees
organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be
held by means of videoconferencing if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public's right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such
as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided
if videoconferencing were not used;
      (3)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the videoconference;
      (4)   At least one member of the City Council or advisory committee is
present at each site of the videoconference; and
      (5)   No more than one-half of the City Council's or advisory committee's
meetings in a calendar year are held by videoconference.
   (B)   Videoconferencing shall not be used to circumvent any of the public
government purposes established in Neb. RS 84-1408 to 84-1414.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VIDEOCONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at two or
more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations.
(Neb. RS 84-1411, 84-1409) (`77 Code, § 1-516) (Ord. 1997-O-005, passed  6-29-
97 )
§ 33.06 TELECONFERENCING.
   (A)   A meeting of the City Council of an entity formed under the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act or of the City Council of a risk
management pool or its advisory committees organized in accordance with the
Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by telephone conference call
if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity's or pool's City
Council will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public's right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one member of the City Council of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity's or pool's meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the City Council at
sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall not
be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in Neb.
RS 84-1408 to 84-1414.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(3))
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest, or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. Closed sessions may be held for but shall not
be limited to such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, the reason for
the closed session, and the time when the closed session commenced and
concluded shall be recorded in the minutes. The public body holding such a
closed session shall restrict its consideration to matters during the closed
portions to only those purposes set forth in the minutes as the reason for the
closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal action shall
mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a
decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance or
formation of a position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance
given by members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in
closed sessions authorized under subdivision (A)(1)(a) of this section.
   (C)   Any member of the public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. Such challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself
a subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the
provisions of this subchapter. No closed session, informal meeting, chance
meeting, social gathering, or electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to chance meetings
or to attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a
public body at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally
convened and there is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over
which the public body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory
power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (`77 Code, § 1-504) (Am. Ord. 1993-O-003, passed 2-1-93; Am.
Ord. 1995-O-013, passed 4-3-95)
§ 33.08 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.11 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(4)) (`77 Code, § 1-505)
§ 33.09 MINUTES.
   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time, place,
members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed. The
minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection during normal
business hours. Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within
ten working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs
earlier.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(1), (4), and (5)) (`77 Code, § 1-506)
Statutory reference:
   Rights of the public, see Neb. RS 84-1412
§ 33.10 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by the
municipality utilizing an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(2))
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413(3)) (`77 Code, § 1-507)
Statutory reference:
   Voting procedure generally, see Neb. RS 17-105, 17-616
§ 33.11 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, secretary, or other designee of each public
body shall maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of
meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to
them of the time and place of each meeting and the subjects to be discussed at
that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411(4)) (`77 Code, § 1-508)
§ 33.12 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the public shall have
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all
or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed meetings called
pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment,
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself.
   (C)   No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small
to accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place which is located in this state.
   (D)   An agency which contracts with municipalities outside the State of
Nebraska may hold meetings of any committee outside the State of Nebraska if
such meetings are held only in such contracting municipalities. Final action on
any agenda item shall only be taken by the agency at a meeting in the State of
Nebraska, which meeting shall comply with Neb. RS 84-1408 to 84-1414.
   (E)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for
examination and copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all
reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1412) (`77 Code, § 1-509) (Am. Ord. 399, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord.
448, passed 10-5-87)
§ 33.13 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the City
Council, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, the Mayor, and such other municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the municipality shall be taken up for consideration
and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
(`77 Code, § 1-511)
§ 33.14 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The change in office shall be made as follows: the Mayor and Council shall
meet on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members
of the Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having
completed its business up to the time, the outgoing members of the Council
shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing
officers shall thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all
property, records, papers, and moneys, belonging to the same.
(`77 Code, § 1-512)
Statutory reference:
   Election, qualifications, term, see Neb. RS 17-104
§ 33.15 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in
the city on the first regular meeting in December of each year in which a
municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as "President of the Council." The Mayor shall
then nominate candidates for appointive offices. He or she shall then proceed
with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and
every member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each
officer elected to any office to qualify prior to the first regular meeting in
December following election. All appointive officers shall qualify within two
weeks following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who is not
required to give bond shall consist in subscribing and taking an oath to
support the constitution of the United States, the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, the laws of the municipality and to perform faithfully and
impartially the duties of office, said oath to be filed in the office of the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall
file the required bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer with
sufficient sureties, conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his
or her office, with the oath endorsed thereon.
(`77 Code, § 1-513)
Cross-reference:
   Council to elect President, see § 30.17
   Council organization, see §
30.21
§ 33.16 REQUEST FOR INFORMATION; PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Residents of the City of Ravenna shall have the right to public
records.
   (B)   Public records shall include all records and documents, regardless of
physical form, belonging to the city. Data which is a public record in its
original form shall remain a public record when maintained in computer files.
   (C)   The City Clerk is the custodian of the public records of a city.
Requests should be made to the City Clerk for copies of any public records of
the city. The requester must utilize a written request form adopted by the City
Clerk and approved by the City Administrator and City Attorney.
   (D)   A reasonable fee can be charged for providing this information,
however, citizens have the right to:
      (1)   Examine the public records and make memoranda or copies using their
own photocopying equipment;
      (2)   Make abstracts, free of charge, during the hours that the City
Clerk's office shall be open for the ordinary transaction of business;
      (3)   Obtain copies of the information if the City Clerk has copying
equipment reasonably available to produce the data requested. Such data may
include, but not be limited to, printouts, electronic data, discs, tapes and
photocopies.
   (E)   Fees charged by the City Clerk for providing copies shall not exceed
the actual cost of making the copies available as provided in Neb. RS 84-712.
The City Clerk shall not be required to generate any public record in a new or
different form or format other than the original public record. The City Clerk,
if the copying costs are estimated at more than $50, may require the requester
to furnish a deposit.
   (F)   Within four business days after actual receipt of the request, the
City Clerk may either provide:
      (1)   Access to, if copying equipment is reasonably available, copies of
the public record;
      (2)   If there is a legal basis for denial of access to the copies, a
written denial that the request together with the information provided in Neb.
RS 84-712.04; or
      (3)   If the entire request cannot be made with reasonable good faith
efforts within the four business days, a written explanation must be given to
the requester, including the earliest practicable date for fulfilling the
request, an estimate of the expected costs of the copies and an opportunity for
the requester to modify or prioritize the items within the request.
   (G)   Records may be withheld from the public. Records that may be withheld
are specified in Neb. RS 84-712.05. This includes personal information, medical
records, trade secrets, work product of an attorney, records of law enforcement
agencies, appraisals, personal personnel information, security information,
library records which would reveal the identity of any patron, job application
materials by applicants other than finalists, social security numbers, credit
card charge cards, and all other items as spelled forth in the statute
including any additions provided by amendment to this statute.
(Ord. 2007-O-024, passed 8-6-07)
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.30 BONDS; FORM.
   (A)   The City Council may require from all officers and servants, elected
or appointed, bonds and security for the faithful performance of their duty.
Official bonds of the municipality shall be in form joint and several and shall
be made payable to the municipality in such penalty as the City Council may set
by resolution, provided that the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the State of Nebraska, for
each particular official. All official bonds of the municipal officials shall
be executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient
sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official as
principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company, provided
that no municipal official, while still in his or her official term of office,
shall be accepted as surety on any other official's bond, contractor's bond,
license bond, or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are
legally authorized to transact business in the State of Nebraska shall be
eligible for suretyship on the bond of an official of the municipality. All
bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the faithful discharge of
all duties required by law of such principal and shall inure to the benefit of
the municipality and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the
conditions of such bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until
the approval of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on
the instrument by the Mayor and Municipal Clerk/Treasurer pursuant to the said
approval of the City Council. The premium on any official bond required to be
given may be paid out of the General Fund or other proper municipal fund, upon
a resolution to that effect by the City Council at the beginning of any
municipal year. All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer for his or of her official records,
and it shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to furnish a
certified copy of any bond so filed upon the payment of a fee, which shall be
set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   In the event that the sureties on the official bond of any officer of
the municipality, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the
City Council may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer
may give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event that the
officer should fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond or additional
sureties to the satisfaction and approval of the City Council, then the office
shall, by such failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to appoint a competent and qualified person to fill
the office.
   (C)   Any official who is re-elected to office shall be required to file a
new bond after each election.
(`77 Code, § 1-301)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds generally and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 11-103 through 11-118
   Authority to require bond, see Neb. RS 17-604
§ 33.31 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the municipality, whether elected or appointed,
except when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before
entering upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath,
which shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      "I,                                              , do solemnly swear that
I will support the constitution of the United States and the constitution of
the State of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely
and without mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of,
                          , according to law and to the best of my ability. And
I do further swear that I do not advocate nor am I a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am in this position I will not advocate nor become a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence. So help me God."
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 11-101) (`77 Code, § 1-302)
COMPENSATION
§ 33.45 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices, provided that the
compensation of the members of the City Council, a board, or commission may be
increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member,
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the City Council
and will be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer.
(`77 Code, § 1-901)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation for merged offices, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
   Compensation of elected offices regulated, see Neb. RS 17-612
§ 33.46 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, OFFICER shall mean:
         (a)   Any member of any board or commission of the municipality;
         (b)   Any appointed official, if such municipal official serves on a
board or commission which spends and administers its own funds and is dealing
with a contract made by such board or commission; or
         (c)   Any elected municipal official.
      (2)   Unless specified otherwise, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers for purposes of this section, with
respect to their duties as firefighters and ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   No officer of the municipality shall be permitted to benefit
from any contract to which the municipality is a party. The existence of such
an interest in any contract renders the contract voidable by decree of a court
of competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or
took assignment thereof with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the municipality or by any resident thereof and must be brought within one year
after the contract is signed or assigned. Any such decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the municipality has benefited thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this section shall apply only when the officer
or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract. BUSINESS ASSOCIATION shall mean a business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract, except that if such officer is an employee of the business
involved in the contract and has no ownership interest or will not receive a
pecuniary fee, such officer shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not apply if the interested
officer:
         (a)   Makes a declaration on the record to the City Council
responsible for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his
or her interest, prior to official consideration of the contract;
         (b)   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except
that if the number of members of the Board declaring an interest in the
contract would prevent the Board, with all members present, from securing a
quorum on the issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
         (c)   Does not act for the municipality as to inspection or
performance under the contract in which he or she has an interest.
   (C)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any municipality by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section. Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B), if an officer's
parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the municipality, the officer may
vote on all issues of the contract which are generally applicable to all
employees or all employees within a classification and do not single out his or
her parent, spouse, or child for special action. If an officer has the power to
employ personnel and he or she hires his or her parent, spouse, or child, such
officer shall disclose the hiring pursuant to division (D), except that if the
parent, spouse, or child is already employed in the position at the time the
officer takes office and such position does not change, no disclosure need be
made. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any contract entered
into with an interested officer shall be subject to applicable competitive
bidding requirements and shall be fair and reasonable to the municipality.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain, separately from
other records, a ledger containing the information listed in subdivisions (2)
(a) through (e) of this division (D) about every contract entered into by the
municipality in which an officer has an interest as specified above for which
disclosure is made as provided in division (B).
      (2)   Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from
the date of the officer's last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the municipality
involved;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
   (E)   (1)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be
provided to the Clerk/Treasurer not later than ten days after the contract has
been signed by both parties.
      (2)   The ledger kept by the Clerk/Treasurer shall be available for
public inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is
kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (F)   (1)   An open account established for the benefit of any municipality
or entity thereof, with a business in which an officer has an interest, shall
be deemed a contract subject to the provisions of this section. The statement
required to be filed pursuant to this section shall be filed within ten days
after such account is opened.
      (2)   Thereafter, the Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a running account of
all amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from petty cash or a
petty cash fund shall not be subject to the provisions of this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (C) through (F) of this section, the City
Council may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the City Council may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (H)   The municipality may enact ordinances exempting from the provisions of
this section, contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of such
municipality may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
   (I)   (1)   No officer, including volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers, shall receive any pay or perquisites from the municipality other than
his or her salary.
      (2)   The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, which shall come within the proper scope of the duties
of any officer of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
(`77 Code, § 1-902) (Am. Ord. 356, passed 2-7-83; Am. Ord. 371, passed 11-7-83;
Am. Ord. 386, passed 11-5-84)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 49-1499.03 through
49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
   Private gain by public officers prohibited, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-
312
   Power district directors and employees permitted to hold other elective
office, see Neb. RS 70-624.04
INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT
§ 33.60 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb. RS
44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and cooperative
action, in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339, to form, become
members of and operate a risk management services and insurance coverages in
the form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any
combination of group self-insurance and standard insurance to protect members
against losses arising from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including,
but not limited to loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or extra expense
resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers' compensation liability.
(`77 Code, § 1-1101)
PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
§ 33.75 PERSONNEL MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Personnel Manual of the City of Ravenna is adopted by reference and
incorporated as if fully set forth herein. Amendments to the Personnel Manual
shall be effective immediately and the revised Manual shall be given to each
employee of the city. A copy of the Personnel Manual is available for public
inspection at the Clerk's office during normal business hours.
(Ord. 2011-O-013, passed 6-6-11)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 33.80 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that the proper operation of democratic
government requires that public officials and employees be independent,
impartial and responsible to the people; that governmental decisions and policy
be made in proper channels of the governmental structure; that public office
not be used for personal gain; and that the public have confidence in the
integrity of its government. In recognition of these goals, a Code of Ethics
for all city officials and employees is adopted.
   (B)   This Code of Ethics has four purposes:
      (1)   To encourage high ethical standards in official conduct by city
officials and employees;
      (2)   To establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all
such officials and employees by setting forth those acts or actions that are
incompatible with the best interests of the city;
      (3)   To require disclosure by such officials and employees of private
financial or other interests in matters affecting the city; and
      (4)   To serve as a basis for disciplining those who fail to abide by its
terms.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to political
contributions, loans, expenditures, reports or regulation of political
campaigns or the conduct of candidates in such campaigns.
   (D)   The City Council may adopt, amend, and rescind rules of procedure to
carry out the provisions of this subchapter. Such rules shall be consistent
with this subchapter and other applicable law.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.81 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFECTED. In the case of a person, entity or property means reasonably
likely to be subject to a direct economic effect or consequence, either
positive or negative, as a result of the vote or decision in question. For
instance, a person or entity owning real property, entering into a contract
with the city, or seeking a permit or franchise is affected by votes or
decisions such as zoning of the property, approval of the contract, or granting
of the permit. AFFECTED does not include those persons or entities who are
subject to an indirect or secondary effect from official action. Creditors,
independent contractors, or guarantors of a person affected by a vote or
decision are not also deemed to be affected by virtue of their relationship
with the affected person. The vote or decision need not be the only producing
cause of the economic effect or consequence reasonably likely to result. In
determining whether a person, entity or property is or was affected by a vote
or decision, it shall not be necessary to prove the actual existence or
occurrence of an economic effect or consequence if such effect or consequence
would be reasonably expected to exist or occur. Additionally, a vote or
decision to place a matter on a ballot is deemed to affect a person, entity or
property to the same extent that the results of the election would effect the
person, entity or property.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, activity or entity.
   BUSINESS INTEREST OR BUSINESS WITH WHICH THE INDIVIDUAL IS ASSOCIATED.   
      (1)   A business:
         (a)   In which the individual is a partner, director, officer; or
         (b)   In which the individual or a member of the individual's
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more affair
market value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
      (2)   This definition does not include an individual retained or
otherwise employed by a client when the employment creates a confidential
professional relationship protected by law, unless that individual is a
regularly salaried employee for whom the business withholds income tax or pays
social security. A partnership or professional corporation whose officers,
directors or employees occupy a confidential professional relationship
protected by law is also not included. This definition shall not apply to
publicly traded stock under a trading account if the official reports the name
and address of the stockbroker.
   CITY EMPLOYEE OR EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by the city, but does not
include independent contractors hired by the city.
   CITY OFFICIAL OR OFFICIAL. Unless otherwise expressly defined, means the
Mayor, members of the City Council, City Administrator, City Clerk, City
Attorney, Purchasing Agent, Personnel Officer, Finance Officer, Planning
Coordinator/Housing Director, all division and department heads, whether such
person is salaried, hired or elected, and all other persons holding appointed
positions designated by the City Code, as it may be amended from time to time.
CITY OFFICIAL also includes individuals appointed by the Mayor and City Council
to all city commissions, committees, boards, task forces, or other city bodies
unless specifically exempted from this subchapter by the City Council.
   DECISION. Any ordinance, resolution, contract, franchise, formal action or
other matter voted on by the City Council or other city board or commission, as
well as the discussions or deliberations of the Council, board or commission
which can or may lead to a vote or formal action by that body. A DECISION of a
city employee means any action in which the employee exercises discretionary
authority, including but not limited to the issuance of permits, imposition or
collection of fines or fees, authorizations for expenditures, and other non-
ministerial acts.
   DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY. The power to exercise any judgment in a decision or
action.
   ENTITY. A sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm,
corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company,
receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which
business may be conducted.
   INTEREST IN REAL PROPERTY. An interest in real property involving either an
equitable or legal ownership interest regardless of value.
   MINISTERIAL ACT. An act performed in a prescribed manner and not requiring
the exercise of any judgment or discretion.
   OTHER INTERESTS. If a city official or employee with regard to a
partnership, professional corporation or other entity's interest in a client,
has personally acted within the preceding six months in a professional or
fiduciary capacity for the client.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.82 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No city official or employee shall transact any business in his
official capacity with any entity in which he has a business interest.
   (B)   No city official or employee shall formally appear before the body of
which the official or employee is a member while acting as an advocate for
himself or any other person, group, or entity.
   (C)   No elected city official or employee shall represent, for
compensation, any other private person, group or entity before any department,
commission, board or committee of the city.
   (D)   No city official or employee shall represent, directly or indirectly,
any other private person, group or entity in any action or proceeding directly
against the interests of the city, or in any litigation in which the city or
any department, commission, or board or committee thereof is a named party;
provided, however, nothing herein shall limit an official from representing a
court appointed criminal defendant or representing a party to a civil action
where the city is named a party by way of its holding a lien interest for a
special assessment where the validity of the special assessment is not an
issue; and provided further, that nothing herein shall limit the authority of
the City Attorney and his staff to represent the city, its boards, commissions,
committees and officers in the discharge of their duties.
   (E)   No city official or employee shall represent, directly or indirectly,
any private person, group or entity in any action or proceeding in court which
was instituted by a city official or employee in the course of official duties
except as provided in division (D) above.
   (F)   No city official shall represent any private person, group or entity
in any action or proceeding in court which was instituted by or arising from a
decision of a board, commission, committee, task force or other body on which
the official serves.
   (G)   No city official or employee shall accept or solicit any gift or
favor, that might reasonably tend to influence that individual in the discharge
of official duties or that the official or employee knows or should know has
been offered with the intent to influence or reward official conduct.
   (H)   (1)   No city official or employee shall solicit or accept other
employment to be performed or compensation to be received while still a city
official or employee, if the employment or compensation could reasonably be
expected to impair independence in judgment or performance of city duties.
      (2)   If a city official or employee accepts or is soliciting a promise
of future employment from any person or entity who has a substantial interest
in a person, entity or property which would be affected by any decision upon
which the official or employee might reasonably be expected to act,
investigate, advise, or make a recommendation, the official or employee shall
disclose that fact to the Council, board or commission on which he serves or to
his supervisor and shall take no further action on matters regarding the
potential future employer.
   (I)   No city official or employee shall use his official position to secure
a special privilege or exemption for himself or others, or to secure
confidential information for any purpose other than official responsibilities.
   (J)   No city official or employee shall use city facilities, personnel,
equipment or supplies for private purposes, except to the extent such are
lawfully available to the public.
   (K)   City officials and employees shall not exceed their authority or
breach the law or ask others to do so and they should work in full cooperation
with other public officials and employees unless prohibited from so doing by
law or officially recognized confidentiality of their work.
   (L)   No city official or employee in the course of his official duties
shall grant any special consideration, treatment, or advantage to any citizen
beyond that which is available to every other citizen in the same
circumstances.
   (M)   Preferential consideration of the request or petition of any
individual citizen or group of citizens shall not be given. No person shall
receive special advantages beyond that which are available to any other
citizen.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.83 PROHIBITION ON CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   A city official or employee may not participate in a vote or decision
on a matter affecting a person, entity, or property in which the business which
the official or employee is associated is involved. Where the interest of a
city official or employee in the subject matter of a vote or decision is remote
or incidental, the city official or employee may participate in the vote or
decision and need not disclose the interest.
   (B)   REMOTE INTEREST means an interest of a person or entity, including a
city official or employee, who would be affected in the same way as the general
public. The interest of a Council member in the property tax rate, general city
fees, city utility charges, or a comprehensive zoning ordinance or similar
decisions is incidental to the extent that the Council member would be affected
in common with the general public.
   (C)   INCIDENTAL INTEREST means an interest in a person, entity or property
which has insignificant value, or which would be affected only in a de minimis
fashion by a decision. This subchapter does not establish dollar limits on the
terms insignificant value and de minimis, which shall have their usual meanings
and be subject to interpretation on a case by case basis.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.84 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   A city official shall disclose the existence of any business with
which the official is associated involving a person, entity or property which
would be affected by a vote or decision of the body of which the city official
is a member or that he serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of
directors of a nonprofit entity for which a vote or decision regarding funding
by or through the city is being considered. City officials and employees of the
city shall comply with applicable provisions of state law relative to conflicts
of interest and generally regulating the conduct of public officials or
employees.
   (B)   To comply with this section, any Council member who has a conflict of
interest, as set forth in division (A) above, in any matter before the City
Council, shall disclose such fact on the records of the City Council and
refrain from participating in any discussion or voting thereon, provided that
such exceptions shall be observed as is permitted by law. This provision shall
apply if a Council member has disqualified himself or herself from voting.
   (C)   To comply with this section, any member of any official board,
commission or committee who has a conflict of interest as defined herein, in
any matter before the board, commission or committee, of which he is a member,
shall disclose such fact on the records of such board, commission or committee
and refrain from participating in any discussion or voting thereon, provided
that such exceptions shall be observed as are permitted by law.
   (D)   To comply with this section, a city employee shall notify in writing
his supervisor of any substantial interest he may have in a person, entity or
property which would be affected by an exercise of discretionary authority by
the city employee and a supervisor shall reassign the matter. In addition, any
employee, who has a financial or other special interest in a matter before the
City Council or any board, commission, or committee, and who participates in
discussion with or gives an official opinion to the Council or to such board,
commission or committee relating to such matter, shall disclose on the records
of the Council or such board, commission or committee, as the case may be, the
nature and extent of such interest.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.85 INTEREST OF SPOUSE.
   (A)   A spouse of a city official or employee involved in a business with
which he or she is associated shall be deemed to apply to that official or
employee for the purposes of the above sections concerning disclosure.
   (B)   A city official or a city employee may not participate in a vote or
decision affecting a business with which an individual is associated if that
individual is related in the first or second degree of consanguinity or
affinity.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.86 MISUSE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No city official or employee shall willfully and knowingly use
confidential information for pecuniary gain to any other person confidential
information acquired by him in the course of and by reason of his official
duties, nor shall any public official or employee use any such information for
the purpose of pecuniary gain.
   (B)   No former city official or former employee shall use any confidential
information to which he had access by virtue of his official capacity and which
has not been made public concerning the property, operations, policies, or
affairs of the city.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.87 DISPOSITION OF ALLEGED VIOLATIONS; HEARINGS.
   For a violation of this subchapter, complaints and alleged violations of
this subchapter shall be handled as follows.
   (A)   In the case of city employees, disciplinary action shall be maintained
as provided in the city's personnel rules as the same may from time to time be
amended.
   (B)   In the case of city officials, upon the complaint of any person filed
with the City Clerk's office or on its own initiative, the City Council shall
consider possible violations of this subchapter.
      (1)   A complaint alleging a violation of this dubchapter must be filed
with the City Clerk within one year from the commission of the action alleged
as a violation, and not afterward.
      (2)   Not later than five working days after the City Clerk receives a
complaint, the City Clerk shall acknowledge the receipt of the complaint to the
complainant, and provide a copy of the complaint to the City Administrator, the
City Attorney, and the City Council and the person complained against. Not
later than ten working days after receipt of a complaint, the City Council
shall notify in writing the person who made the complaint and the person
complained against of a date for a preliminary hearing.
      (3)   The City Council may consider possible violations of this
subchapter on its own initiative. Within five working days of the City
Council's decision to consider a possible violation of this subchapter, the
City Council shall draft a written complaint specifying the section(s) of this
subchapter alleged to have been violated and shall file a copy with the City
Clerk, and provide a copy to the City Administrator, the City Attorney and the
person complained against. Not later than ten working days after the filing of
the complaint with the City Clerk, the City Council shall notify in writing the
person complained against of the date for the preliminary hearing.
      (4)   The hearing before the City Council may be either in public or in
private. All hearings shall be in public, unless the person complained against
shall notify the City Clerk in writing of his or her desire to have a private
hearing at least 72 hours prior to the time set for said hearing.
   (C)   Preliminary hearing.
      (1)   The issue at a preliminary hearing shall be the existence of
reasonable grounds to believe that a violation of this subchapter has occurred.
The person filing a complaint, or the legal counsel for the City Council in
cases considered upon the City Council's own initiative, shall state the
alleged violation and shall describe in narrative form the testimony and other
evidence which would be presented to prove the alleged violation as stated in
the written complaint. Statements at a preliminary hearing shall be under oath,
but there shall be no cross-examination or requests for persons or evidence
issued for the hearing. Members of the City Council may question the
complainant, legal counsel for the City Council, or the city official named in
the complaint.
      (2)   The city official named in the complaint shall have the opportunity
to respond, but is not required to attend or make any statement. The official
may describe in narrative form the testimony and other evidence which would be
presented to disprove the alleged violation. If the official agrees that a
violation has occurred, he may so state and the City Council may consider the
appropriate sanction or prosecution.
      (3)   The complainant and the city official named in the complaint shall
have the right of representation by counsel.
      (4)   (a)   At the conclusion of the preliminary hearing, the City
Council shall decide whether a final hearing should be held. If the City
Council determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a
violation of this subchapter has occurred, it shall schedule a final hearing.
         (b)   If the City Council does not determine that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that a violation of this subchapter has occurred, the
complaint shall be automatically dismissed. A decision to conduct a final
hearing is not a finding that a violation has occurred.
      (5)   The City Council, at any time during the preliminary hearing, may
also dismiss a complaint if the complaint does not allege conduct which would
be a violation of this subchapter. Before a complaint is dismissed for failure
to allege a violation, the complainant or the legal counsel for the City
Council shall be permitted one opportunity, within a period to be specified by
the City Council, to revise and resubmit the complaint.
      (6)   The complainant, legal counsel for the City Council, and the city
official named in the complaint may ask the City Council at a preliminary
hearing to request certain persons and evidence for a final hearing, if one is
scheduled pursuant to the City Council's subpoena power granted under Neb. RS
16-406, as amended.
   (D)   Final hearing.
      (1)   The final hearing shall be held as expeditiously as possible
following the determination by the City Council that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that a violation of this subchapter has occurred, but in no
event shall it be held more than 30 days after said determination. The City
Council may grant one postponement, not to exceed 15 days each, upon the
request of the city official named in the complaint or the complainant.
      (2)   The issue at a final hearing shall be whether a violation of this
subchapter has occurred. The City Council shall make its determination based on
the preponderance of the credible evidence in the record. All witnesses shall
make their statements under oath. If the City Council determines that a
violation has occurred, it shall state its findings in writing, shall identify
the particular section(s) of this subchapter which have been violated, and
within five working days shall deliver a copy of the findings to the
complainant, if any, the person named in the complaint and the City Clerk. Said
findings shall constitute a public record for the purpose of access by the
public.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.88 OATHS AND REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION.
   If a complaint proceeds to a final hearing, the City Council may subpoena
witnesses to attend and testify, administer oaths and affirmations, take
evidence and request the production of books, papers, records, or other
evidence needed for the performance of the City Council's duties or exercise of
its powers, including its duties and powers of investigation. All hearings of
the City Council under this subchapter shall be recorded by means of a
mechanical recording device or by a certified court reporter.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.89 SANCTIONS.
   (A)   If the City Council determines that a violation of this subchapter has
occurred, it shall proceed directly to determination of the appropriate
sanction(s). The City Council may receive additional testimony or statements
before considering sanctions, but is not required to do so. if the city
official named in the complaint acted in reliance upon a public written opinion
of the City Attorney, the City Council shall consider that fact.
   (B)   If the City Council determines that a violation has occurred, it may
impose the following sanctions:
      (1)   A letter of notification shall be the appropriate sanction when the
violation is clearly unintentional, or when the official's conduct complained
of was made in reliance on a public written opinion of the City Attorney. A
letter of notification shall advise the official or employee to whom it is
directed of any steps to be taken to avoid future violations. The City Council
may direct a letter of notification to any official or employee covered by this
subchapter.
      (2)   A letter of admonition shall be the appropriate sanction in those
cases in which the City Council finds that the violation is minor and/or may
have been unintentional, but calls for a more substantial response than a
letter of notification. The City Council may admonish any official covered by
this subchapter.
      (3)   A reprimand shall be the appropriate sanction when the City Council
finds that a violation has been committed intentionally or through disregard of
this subchapter. The City Council may reprimand any official covered by this
subchapter.
      (4)   A letter of censure shall be the appropriate sanction when the City
Council finds that a serious or repeated violation(s) of this subchapter has
been committed intentionally or through culpable disregard of this subchapter
by an elected city official. A letter of censure directed to an elected city
official shall be transmitted to the City Clerk, and published in a newspaper
of general circulation within the city.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
§ 33.90 OFFICER DEFINED.
   For the purposes of sections of this subchapter, OFFICER shall mean a member
of any board or commission of the city which spends and administers its own
funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such board or commission; or any
elected city official. Volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not
be considered officers with respect to their duties as firefighters and
ambulance drivers.
(Ord. 2006-O-018, passed 5-8-06)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certification
   
34.06   Officers; terms; qualifications
   
34.07   Wards
   
34.08   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.09   Filing fee
   
34.10   Primary election; number of candidates filing
   
34.11   Petition candidates; number of signatures required; procedure
   
34.12   Exit polls
   
34.13   Certificate of nomination or election
   
34.14   Inability to assume office
   
34.15   Recall procedure
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the non-partisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act. Any other election held by the municipality shall be held
as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by Neb. RS 19-3001
through 19-3052.
(Neb. RS 32-404) (`77 Code, § 1-701) (Am. Ord. 301, passed 2-15-78)
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS Chapter 32
   Election costs, see Neb. RS 32-1201 through 32-1208
   Notice, publication, and printing of ballots, see Neb. RS 32-801 through 32-
822
   Statewide general election, see Neb. RS 32-403
   Statewide primary election, see Neb. RS 32-401
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk no less than 40 days prior to an election shall serve as the
notice requirement for all municipal elections which are held in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(`77 Code, 1-709)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of election requirements, see Neb. RS 32-802
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, REGISTERED VOTER shall mean an elector
who has a current voter registration record on file with the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
municipality on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all
municipal elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602) (`77 Code, § 1-713)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of "elector," see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days
prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as provided in
Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election shall be subject to
division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue absentee
ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots, including
absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the
same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by
the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify the election results to the City Council. The canvass by the County
Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the City
Council.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-405) (`77 Code, § 1-710)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
    No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected,
the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 OFFICERS; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All elected officers of the municipality shall be nominated at the
statewide primary election and elected at the statewide general election. All
elected officers of the municipality shall serve for terms of four years or
until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (B)   The Mayor and Council members shall be residents and registered voters
of the municipality.
   (C)   The members of the City Council shall be elected from the municipality
by wards, as defined in §
34.07 of this code, unless the registered voters of the municipality vote to
elect its Council members at large. Each ward of the municipality shall have
two Council members elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. The
term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the City Council in
December following the statewide general election. No person shall be eligible
to the office of Council member who is not at the time of the election an
actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a registered
voter.
(`77 Code, § 1-717)
Statutory reference:
   Change from or to ward or at-large election, see Neb. RS 32-554
   City Council, members, terms, qualifications, see Neb. RS 17-103 and 17-104
   Mayor, qualifications, see Neb. RS 17-107
   Merger of elective and appointive offices, see Neb. RS 17-108.02
§ 34.07 WARDS.
   (A)   The municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent federal census to insure that each ward is substantially equal in
population.
   (B)   The municipality shall stand divided into wards.
   (C)   The number and boundaries of the city's wards are on file for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
Statutory reference:
   Change from wards to election at large, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ward requirements, see Neb. RS 17-102
§ 34.08 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective municipal offices shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the City Council provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination
and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than
60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.09 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required on any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608) (`77 Code, § 1-708) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-007, passed 4-6-15)
Statutory reference:
   Filing deadlines, see Neb. RS 32-606
§ 34.10 PRIMARY ELECTION; NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
   If the names of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election for officers of the municipality do not exceed two candidates for each
position to be filled, any such candidates shall be declared nominated and
their names shall not appear on any primary election ballots.
(Neb. RS 32-811) (`77 Code, § 1-703)
§ 34.11 PETITION CANDIDATES; NUMBER OF SIGNATURES REQUIRED; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-626(1) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in this section.
   (B)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
governor or president of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the municipality.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for governor or president of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the municipality, not to
exceed 2,000.
   (C)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered voters
residing in the municipality and shall be filed with the filing officer in the
same manner as provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition
signers and circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing payment of the required filing fee. The petitions
shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-616 through 32-618) (`77 Code, § 1-715) (Ord. 383, passed 11-5-84;
Am. Ord. 1998-O-016, passed 9-14-98)
§ 34.12 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct any exit poll, public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if inside the
polling place building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) (`77 Code, § 1-718) (Ord. 401, passed 9-9-85)
§ 34.13 CERTIFICATE OF NOMINATION OR ELECTION.
   (A)   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk, or Municipal Clerk shall,
within 40 days after the election, prepare, sign, and deliver a certificate of
nomination or a certificate of election to each person whom the canvassing
board has declared to have received the highest vote for each municipal office.
No person shall be issued a certificate of nomination as a candidate of a
political party unless such person has received a number of votes at least
equal to 5% of the total ballots cast at the primary election by registered
voters affiliated with that political party in the district which the office
for which he or she is a candidate serves.
   (B)   A certificate of election prepared by the Municipal Clerk shall be in
the form as nearly as possible prescribed in Neb. RS 32-1033 and shall be
signed by the Mayor, under the seal of the Municipality, and countersigned by
the Clerk.
(Neb. RS 19-3041, 32-558, 32-1033)
Statutory reference:
   Duty to issue certificates, see Neb. RS 32-558
§ 34.14 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   (A)   If the candidate who received the highest number of votes for a
nonpartisan office in a general election is ineligible, disqualified, deceased,
or for any other reason unable to assume the office for which he or she was a
candidate and the registered voters had reasonable notice of such disability at
the time of the election, the candidate who received the next highest number of
votes to the candidates who would normally receive certificates of election
shall be declared elected and shall be entitled to a certificate of election if
he or she received not less than 35% of the total number of votes cast for the
office in the election and the number of persons to be elected for the office
is not greater than two, and not less than 10% when the number of persons to be
nominated for the office is greater than two. If the candidate who received the
next highest number of votes received less than the required percentage, if no
other person was a candidate for the office, or if the registered voters did
not have reasonable notice at the time of the election of the disability of the
candidate who received the highest number of votes to merit a certificate of
election, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term, and the vacancy may be filled as prescribed by law
for such office.
   (B)   The determination of whether the registered voters had reasonable
notice for purposes of this section shall be made by the appropriate filing
officer under Neb. RS 32-607. The decision of the filing officer may be
appealed to the district court.
(Neb. RS 32-626(2) and (3))
§ 34.15 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, filing clerk means the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, a member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to Neb. RS
32-1301 to 32-1309.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of such
sections shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official of the city be
submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal
in number to at least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last
general election, except that for an office for which more than one candidate
is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to
at least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most
votes for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be
affixed to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-630.
       (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought
to be removed, shall include in typewritten form in concise language of 60
words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall deliver a copy of the
affidavit by certified mail to the official sought to be removed. If the
official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in typewritten form
in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after
the official receives the copy of the affidavit. The filing clerk shall notify
the principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators.
      (2)   Within 15 days after the filing of the petition, the filing clerk
shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number
of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing
of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the filing clerk
receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be
removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk shall
attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such examination. If
the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the filing clerk
shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to the filing of
a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing clerk
shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council that
sufficient signatures have been gathered. If the official does not resign
within five days after receiving the notice, the Council shall order an
election to be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the expiration
of the five-day period, except that if any other election is to be held in the
city within 90 days of the expiration of the five-day period, the Council shall
provide for the holding of the removal election on the same day. After the
Council sets the date for the recall election, the recall election shall be
held regardless of whether the official whose removal is sought resigns before
the recall election is held.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election shall conform to
the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and state law.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk that he or she does not want a
recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the
members of the City Council at one time due to the recall of such members, a
special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously as
possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
(`77 Code, §1-716) (Am. Ord. 1999-O-012, passed 9-13-99)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Public funds defined
   
35.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.03   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.04   Claims
   
35.05   Expenditures
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds
   
35.09   Fiscal management; deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment of funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Warrants
   
35.15   Collection fee for insufficient funds check or invalid automatic
clearing house (ACH) withdrawal
   
35.16   Economic Development Program
Annual Budget
   
35.30   Fiscal year
   
35.31   Budget procedures
   
35.32   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.33   Proposed budget statement; contents; filing
   
35.34   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of amount
to be received from taxation
   
35.35   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
35.36   Appropriation bill
   
35.37   Revision of budget
   
35.38   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.60   All-purpose levy; allocation; abandonment; extraordinary levies
   
35.61   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.62   Property tax; certification of amount
   
35.63   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
35.64   Motor vehicle tax
   
35.65   Sales and use tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 PUBLIC FUNDS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If a municipality has a lottery established
under the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which
are actually received by the municipality from a licensed lottery operator
shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts
awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503(7))
§ 35.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $20,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the City
Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $20,000 for enlargement or general improvements, such
as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets,
or any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for
bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the City Council may
publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $20,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of such
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $20,000 or less;
      (2)   $40,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000;
      (4)   $80,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality and, if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a 3/4 vote of the City Council and
entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the City Council may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 to 81-162;
or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services. For purposes of this division (I):
      (1)   PERSONAL PROPERTY includes but is not limited to supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency; and
      (2)   PURCHASING or PURCHASE means the obtaining of personal property by
sale, lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
(`77 Code, § 1-809) (Am. Ord. 323, passed 10-15-79; Am. Ord. 488, passed 12-18-
90; Am. Ord. 1998-O-008, passed 4-6-98)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.03 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be
made by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close
of the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual
audit report made not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year.
The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three copies of the
audit report to the City Council. All public utilities or other enterprises
which substantially generate their own revenue shall be audited separately, and
the results of such audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report,
and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall contain statements and
materials which conform to generally accepted accounting principles. The audit
report shall set forth the financial position and results of financial
operations for each fund or group of accounts of the municipality as well as an
opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial statements. Two copies
of the annual audit report shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer,
and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer's office, and will at all times thereafter be open for public
inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer not later than August 1 of each year financial statements showing its
actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year. (Neb.
RS 13-606)
(`77 Code, § 1-810) (Am. Ord. 309, passed 7-10-78; Am. Ord. 385, passed 11-5-
84)
Statutory reference:
   State municipal auditing regulations; similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-
2901 through 19-2909
§ 35.04 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the City Council
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the City Council to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the municipal treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn, provided that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which
warrant is drawn.
(`77 Code, § 1-811)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-714 and 17-715
§ 35.05 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or
draw any order or warrant on the municipal treasury for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No expenditure for any improvement to be paid for out of the General
Fund of the municipality shall exceed in any one year the amount provided for
that improvement in the adopted budget statement.
(`77 Code, §§ 1-808)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the authority to collect the special
assessments which it levies and perform all other necessary functions related
thereto including foreclosure.
   (B)   If the municipality elects to collect its special assessments, notice
that special assessments are due shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to the
last known address of the person against whom such special assessments are
assessed or to the lending institution or other party responsible for paying
such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice shall not relieve the
taxpayer from any liability to pay such special assessments and any interest or
penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A municipality that elects to collect its special assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216) (`77 Code, § 1-820) (Ord. 1997-O-16, passed 7-22-97)
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for
no other purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the municipality for money
expended for any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710) (`77 Code, § 1-813)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Council, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall
have the power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by state law upon
the taxable value of all taxable property within the municipality for a term
not to exceed that prescribed by state law in addition to the amount of tax
which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement
of the municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of the approved uses as authorized by state law.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (B)   To initiate the sinking fund, the City Council shall declare its
purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the municipality
the proposition to provide the improvement at the next general municipal
election. The resolution shall set forth a clear description of the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, over a definite
period of years (not exceeding ten years) required to pay such cost, and the
specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established to
carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the proposition
for placement upon the ballot at such election. Notice of the proposition shall
be published in its entirety three times on successive weeks before the day of
the election in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
The sinking fund may be established after the election if a majority or more of
the legal votes were in favor of the establishment of the fund. The City
Council may then proceed to establish the fund in conformity with the
provisions of the proposition and applicable state law. The funds received by
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested with the written approval of the City Council in the manner provided
by state law. No sinking fund so established shall be used for any purpose or
purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on the ballot unless the City
Council is authorized to do so by 60% of the qualified electors of the
municipality voting at a general election favoring such a change in the use of
the sinking fund.
(`77 Code, § 1-814)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1301 through 19-1304
   Investment of funds, see Neb. RS 77-2337 and 77-2341
§ 35.09 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Municipal Treasurer shall at all times keep on deposit, for
safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received, or held as City Treasurer. Such deposits shall be subject
to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the City Council for the
receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder, director, or other
officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution is also serving as Mayor, as a member of the City
Council, as a member of a board of public works, or as any other officer of the
city shall not disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution, or
qualifying mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for such
municipal funds.
   (B)   The Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions (a) a bond in such
penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu thereof, (b)
security given as provided in Nebraska Revised Statutes, to secure the payment;
of all such deposits and accretions. The Council shall approve such bond or
giving of security. The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any
money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated
and approved.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks or capital stock
financial institutions through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
be deemed and construed to be a surety bond to the extent that the deposits are
insured by such corporation. For deposits so insured, no other surety bond or
other security shall be required. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply
to deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer may deposit the funds received and held
by him or her by virtue of such office with a cooperative credit association
situated within the boundaries of the county, or a county adjoining thereto,
where the municipality is situated, if the municipality is the depositor, as
well as in a commercial state or national bank if the cooperative credit
association performs all the conditions precedent required by the laws of this
state of commercial state and national banks to qualify them to receive
deposits of such public funds. It shall not be necessary for the municipality,
in making such a deposit of public funds, to purchase shares in such
cooperative credit association or become a member thereof, and such a
cooperative credit association is hereby authorized and empowered to receive
such money under such conditions.
(Neb. RS 21-1316.01)
(`77 Code, § 1-816) (Ord. 721, passed 7-6-99; Am. Ord. 2004-O-001, passed 2-2-
04)
Statutory reference:
   Deposits of public funds regulated, see Neb. RS 77-2362 through 77-2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386 through 77-23,106
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and
City Council authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and
make time deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the
State of Nebraska to the extent that such certificates of deposit or time
deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may
be made in excess of the amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount
of the excess deposit shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the
manner provided in this section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply
to deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
   (B)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and
payment of such deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to
the municipality and be approved by the Mayor. The bond shall be conditioned
that such a depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the
Treasurer a statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances, the
amount of money of the municipality held by it during the quarter, the amount
of the accretion thereto, and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned
that the depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by
the provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the City Council for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 16-714)
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) of this section, any bank
or capital stock financial institution making application to become a
depository may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The penal sum of such bond shall be equal
to or greater than the amount of the deposit in excess of that portion of such
deposit insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(Neb. RS 16-715)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital stock
financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus ½ of the amount of the bond of
such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on deposit
any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution shall not in
either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank or capital
stock financial institution. The Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss
sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose bond has
been duly approved by the Mayor as provided in division (B) of this section or
which has, in lieu of a surety bond, given security as provided in division (C)
of this section.
(Neb. RS 16-716) (`77 Code, § 1-816.01)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in certificates of deposit,
in time deposits, and in any securities in which the state investment officer
is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made.
(Neb. RS 77-2341(1)) (`77 Code, § 1-817) (Am. Ord. 469, passed 1-8-90)
Statutory reference:
   Investment in bonds, see Neb. RS 17-608 and 17-609
   Investment in cooperative credit associations, see Neb. RS 21-1316.01
   Investment of funds, see Neb. RS 77-2337 and 77-2341
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(`77 Code, § 1-818)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Boundary bridge bonds, see Neb. RS 39-835 through 39-842.01
   Cemetery bonds, see Neb. RS 12-1001 through 12-1004 and RS 17-939
   Cold storage plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-958
   Compromise of indebtedness, see Neb. RS 10-301 through 10-305
   Dikes, see Neb. RS 17-529.01
   Flood control project bonds, see Neb. RS 17-529.08
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-614
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
   Internal improvement bonds, see Neb. RS 10-401 through 10-411
   Joint power plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-911
   Library bonds, see Neb. RS 17-968
   Medical and multi-unit facility bonds, see Neb. RS 23-3513
   Power plant bonds, see Neb. RS 17-908
   Tax anticipation bonds, see Neb. RS 18-1202
   Uniform registration and cancellation of bonds, see Neb. RS 10-201 through
10-209
   Utilities bonds, see Neb. RS 17-905
   Waterworks bonds, see Neb. RS 17-534
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The municipality may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without this state, for
the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the municipality.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt;
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes or real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4-1/2% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, stating the particular fund
to which the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for the fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711) (`77 Code, § 1-812)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2201 through 77-2215
§ 35.15 COLLECTION FEE FOR INSUFFICIENT FUNDS CHECK OR INVALID AUTOMATIC
CLEARING HOUSE (ACH) WITHDRAWAL.
   All checks that are issued to the City of Ravenna which are returned
insufficient funds shall be assessed a collection fee in the amount of $20. In
addition, any Automatic Clearing House (ACH) withdrawal which are rejected and
funds are not received by the city shall be assessed a collection fee in the
amount of $20. These fees shall be in addition to any other fees charged by the
Buffalo County Attorney's office in any attempt to collect the same.
(Ord. 2013-O-021, passed 10-7-13)
§ 35.16 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
   The Economic Development Program adopted by the City of Ravenna to generate
economic activity and assist businesses in relocation or expansion is
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. A copy of the Economic
Development Program is available for inspection in the City Clerk's office
during normal business hours.
(Ord. 2011-O-025, passed 11-7-11; Am. Ord. 2012-O-001, passed 1-9-12)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.30 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality and any public utility of the
municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701) (`77 Code, § 1-801) (Am. Ord. 1996-O-002, passed 1-8-96)
§ 35.31 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(`77 Code, § 1-805)
§ 35.32 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year and until the adoption of the budget by the City Council in
September, the City Council may expend any balance of cash on hand for the
current expenses of the municipality. Except as provided in division (B) of
this section, such expenditures shall not exceed an amount equivalent to the
total amount expended under the last budget in the equivalent period of the
prior budget year. Such expenditures shall be charged against the
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the municipality to meet its
statutory duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the
expenditures in excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the
City Council in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section
shall be charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as
provided in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to authorize expenditures by the municipality in excess of that
authorized by any other statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02) (`77 Code, § 1-804.01) (Ord. 1995-O-016, passed 5-1-95)
§ 35.33 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall prepare in writing and file with the
Municipal Clerk, not later than the first day of August of each year on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a proposed budget
statement containing the following information, except as provided by state
law:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The unencumbered cash balance at the beginning
and end of the year; the amount received by taxation of personal and real
property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to the funds and separately
stated as to each such source: The actual unencumbered cash balance available
at the beginning of the year; the amount received from personal and real
property taxation; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditures,
whichever is applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. Such cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget exclusive of capital
outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever
is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts
proposed to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based
on actual experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of
the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property (i) for the
purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds issued by the Governing
Body and (ii) for all other purposes;
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Governing Body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. Such proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Governing Body as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the Municipality as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the Municipality and shall be accurately stated on the proposed
budget statement.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Neb. RS 13-505) (`77 Code, § 1-802) (Am. Ord. 384, passed 11-5-84; Am. Ord.
1994-O-009, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 1997-O-014, passed 7-22-97; Am. Ord. 1998-
O-017, passed 9-14-98)
§ 35.34 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT
TO BE RECEIVED FROM TAXATION.
   (A)   After the filing of the proposed budget statement with the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer, the City Council shall each year conduct a public hearing on
the proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality or by direct mailing of the notice to each
resident within the municipality.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of such
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted, or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately:
      (1)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued by the City Council; and
      (2)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507) (`77 Code, § 1-803) (Am. Ord. 1998-O-018, passed 9-14-98)
§ 35.35 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board on or before September 20 of each year and file
with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget statement,
together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget,
setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not certify an amount of tax
more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the proposed
budget statement.
   (C)   The City Council may designate one of its members to perform any duty
or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508) (`77 Code, § 1-804) (Am. Ord. 1996-O-003, passed 1-8-96; Am.
Ord. 1997-O-015, passed 7-22-97; Am. Ord. 1998-O-020, passed 9-28-98)
§ 35.36 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed "The Annual Appropriation Bill," in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-706) (`77 Code, § 1-806) (Am. Ord. 1994-O-011, passed 7-11-94; Am.
Ord. 1996-O-004, passed 2-5-96)
§ 35.37 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose to
revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on such proposal, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
      (1)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
      (2)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, such that the
revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be insufficient,
additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a need to reduce
the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522; or
      (3)   The City Council has been notified by the State Auditor of a
mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget Act.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the City Council's jurisdiction. Such published notice shall
set forth the following:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner; and
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published.
   (C)   At such hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which
such City Council is located, and with the State Auditor, a copy of the revised
budget, as adopted, and shall certify the revised amount of tax to be levied.
The City Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized
by the adopted revised budget. Such warrants shall be referred to as registered
warrants and shall be repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived
from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
State Auditor, the City Council shall, correct an adopted budget which contains
a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not affect the total
amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount required from property
taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a correction. After
correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the corrected budget with the
County Clerk of the county or counties in which such City Council is located
and with the State Auditor. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.38 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, the City Council
may prepare a proprietary budget statement for its proprietary functions
separate and apart from its municipal budget statement prepared pursuant to the
Nebraska Budget Act. For purposes of this section, PROPRIETARY FUNCTION shall
mean a water supply or distribution utility, a wastewater collection or
treatment utility, an electric generation, transmission, or distribution
utility, a gas supply, transmission, or distribution utility, an integrated
solid waste management collection, disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital
or a nursing home owned by the municipality.
(Neb. RS 18-2803(5))
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the municipality's General Fund shall have the same
fiscal year as the municipality. For purposes of this section, SUBSIDIZATION
shall mean that the costs of operation of a proprietary function are regularly
financed by appropriations from the municipality's General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the municipality to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (C)   (1)   If the municipality does not include its proprietary functions
in its municipal budget statement, a proposed proprietary statement shall be
prepared in writing on forms provided by the State Auditor and filed with the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, at least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal
year of each proprietary function, containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   Such statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After the proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing
on such statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of
the proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer during normal business hours shall be published at least five
days prior to the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the City
Council's jurisdiction or by mailing each resident within the City Council's
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After such hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written report shall be
kept of such hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer within 20 days after its adoption and published in a newspaper
of general circulation within the City Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council's jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of such fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for such fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the City Council's jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council's jurisdiction. If the difference between
the adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for such fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   Any income from a proprietary function which is transferred to the
General Fund of the municipality shall be shown as a source of revenue in the
municipal budget statement created pursuant to the Nebraska Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.60 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES.
   (A)   The City Council has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all-purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all-
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   (1)   The amount of the all-purpose levy shall be certified as a
single amount for General Fund purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
      (2)   The City Council shall allocate the amount raised by the all-
purpose levy to the several departments of the municipality in its annual
budget and appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the City
Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   The municipality shall be bound by its election to follow the all-
purpose levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method
in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the municipality may be made by the municipality in addition to
the all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
(`77 Code, § 1-823) (Ord. 1998-O-027, passed 10-5-98)
§ 35.61 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the municipality for fiscal
years beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set
forth in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) of this section.
The municipality may levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation
of property subject to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable
valuation to provide financing for the municipality's share of revenue required
under an agreement or agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include
amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201,
museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse,
or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or
monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments obtained
against the municipality which require or obligate the municipality to pay such
judgment, to the extent such judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the municipality, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved
prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and
secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire
interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided
in this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies
provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions
to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and offstreet parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the municipality and are counted in
the municipality's levy limit provided by division (A) of this section, except
that such limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting
lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded
indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and
for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the
Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the
public airport. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove the
levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The
City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a
levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The
levy allocated by the municipality may be exceeded as provided in Neb. RS 77-
3444. On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to municipal
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision's governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude such
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (2)   The City Council shall:
         (a)   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
         (b)   Forward a copy of such resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
      (3)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except
by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The municipality may exceed the limits provided in division (A)
of this section by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a
majority of registered voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or
special election at which the issue is placed before the registered voters. A
vote to exceed the limits must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal
year which is to be the first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and delivering a copy
of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every county
which contains all or part of the municipality; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) of this
section and the duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy
authority shall not have a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or
petition calling for a special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election,
and the time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election
required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the
election. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 30 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631. Any excess levy
authority approved under this division (C) shall terminate pursuant to its
terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the authority to levy more
than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year following the first year
in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided in division (D) of this
section, whichever is earliest. The City Council may pass no more than one
resolution calling for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one
calendar year. Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant
to a petition initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may
include any terms and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and
shall include the language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444. If a majority of the
votes cast upon the ballot question are in favor of such tax, the County Board
shall authorize a tax in excess of the limits in division (A) of this section,
but such tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the ballot question. If a
majority of those voting on the ballot question are opposed to such tax, the
City Council shall not impose such tax. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner may set a uniform date for a special election to be held before
October 10, 1998, to submit the issue of exceeding the limits provided in Neb.
RS 77-3442 or the final levy allocation as provided in Neb. RS 77-3443 to the
voters of political subdivisions in the county seeking additional levy
authority. The municipality may individually or in conjunction with one or more
other political subdivisions conduct a special election on a date different
from that set by the County Clerk or Election Commissioner, except that the
City Council shall pass a resolution calling for a special election for this
purpose and deliver a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election.
   (D)   (1)   The municipality may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least 2/3 of the members of the City Council and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the municipality; or
         (b)   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the municipality
requesting an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing
in the municipality.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444
(Ord. 1998-O-022, passed 9-28-98)
§ 35.62 PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the municipality which the
municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Neb. RS 17-702) (`77 Code, § 1-807) (Am. Ord. 1998-O-021, passed 9-28-98)
§ 35.63 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with the levying
board on or before October 14 of each year and file with the Auditor of Public
Accounts a certified copy of any resolution passed setting a tax levy which
shall not exceed the maximum levy prescribed by state law and a statement
reconciling the levy set by the City Council with the adopted budget statement
filed as otherwise required by law. The levy shall be set to fund property tax
requirements in the adopted budget to four to eight places to the right of the
decimal point. The City Council shall use the final adjusted values as provided
by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of such body by this
division (A).
   (B)   (1)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the
property tax request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the
County Board of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the City Council passes
by a majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a
different amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a
special public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the municipality
at least five days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the
property tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
         (b)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last
year's tax request if applied to the current year's valuation; and
         (c)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current
year and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request.
      (3)   Any resolution setting a tax request under this division (B) shall
be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply. Any tax levy which is not in compliance
with this subsection and Neb. RS 77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized
levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(`77 Code, § 1-821) (Ord. 1997-O-017, passed 8-4-97; Am. Ord. 1998-O-024,
passed 10-5-98)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-508 and 77-1601.02
§ 35.64 MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   The City Council of the city may levy a tax on all motor vehicles owned or
used in the city, which tax shall be paid to the county treasurer of the county
in which the city is located when the registration fees as provided in Neb. RS
60-329 through 60-339 are paid. Such taxes shall be credited by the county
treasurer to the road fund of the city. Such funds shall be used by the city
for constructing, resurfacing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads alleys,
public ways, or parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness
when created for such purposes.
(Neb. RS 18-1214) (`77 Code, § 1-819) (Ord. 470, passed 1-8-90)
§ 35.65 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted, pursuant to the provisions of the Nebraska
Revenue Act of 1967 and the Local Option Revenue Act of 1968, and other
pertinent statutes, a sales and use tax of 1% upon the same transactions within
the corporate limits of the city, as the same may, from time to time, be
extended, on which the State of Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax pursuant
to the provisions of the above-referenced statutes of the State of Nebraska, as
the same may from time to time be amended.
   (B)   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this section,
the making of returns for the ascertainment, assessment, the provision for tax
claims and remedies, the laws governing consummation of sales, penalties and
collection and for the disposition and distribution of the taxes so imposed and
collected shall be as provided by the Nebraska statutes mentioned above.
   (C)   The sales and use taxes collected pursuant to this section shall be
used generally for property tax relief and may be used to reduce property
taxes, diminish any increase in property taxes or in any other manner that
provides property tax relief.
(`77 Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 1998-O-010, passed 6-1-98)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Utility bills; collection
   
50.03   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.04   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.05   Diversion of services; penalty
   
50.06   Lien
   
50.07   Deferment of payment for utilities and utility deposits
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601) (`77 Code, § 3-1102) (Ord. 1999-O-011, passed 9-13-99)
§ 50.02 UTILITY BILLS; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Charges for utility services provided by or through the city shall be
billed jointly on a monthly basis. The Utilities Superintendent shall read, or
cause to be read, water and electric meters on or around the fifteenth day of
each month. Utility bills shall be mailed on the first day of each month and
shall be due upon receipt and payable by the tenth day of each month. Bills
paid after the tenth day of each month shall have a penalty charge added
thereto in an amount set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the
office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer or Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   Bills not paid by the twenty-fifth day of each month shall be deemed
to be delinquent. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, the city may discontinue
service pursuant to §
50.03. Once discontinued, service shall not be recommenced except upon payment
of a reconnection fee in an amount set by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   The city may also take any action authorized by law to effect
collection of the delinquent charges.
§ 50.03 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Before any
termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first-class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first- class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously
marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least
seven days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent or given. As
to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to
the municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services, such notice as
given by Municipal Clerk shall be by certified mail, and notice of such
proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Health and Human
Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service
pending the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within such
subscriber's household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality's service to that household; (Such
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality's service for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this section for each
incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account.)
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets forth
the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been
made by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the municipality may
discontinue services.
   (D)   The procedures adopted by the City Council for resolving utility
bills, three copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments
thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(`77 Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 322, passed 10-15-79; Am. Ord. 364, passed 7-11-83;
Am. Ord. 1997-O-019, passed 8-4-97)
Statutory reference:
   Utility discontinuance regulated, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Any person who connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without
the knowledge and consent of the municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter provided for measuring or registering the
amount or quantity passing through it, and any person who knowingly uses or
knowingly permits the use of water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized
ways, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters, or by any instrument,
device, or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of
the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When water service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
to 70-1615 or §
50.03 of this code, any person who reconnects such service without the
knowledge and consent of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (D)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, or obstruction of a meter, as
provided in this section, is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in
possession of the premises where such connection, reconnection, injury,
alteration, or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering when such act results in damages
to a municipal utility.
      (2)   A municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the municipality
shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering,
or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
      (1)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      (2)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or loss
is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(1) or (2) of this
section, the municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs
incurred on account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering,
including but not limited to disconnection, reconnection, service calls,
equipment, costs of the suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within
the scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (D)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at
any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the tenant or occupant:
      (1)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the premises
where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to exist;
and
      (2)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws, and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any other civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions related to diversion of utility services, see Neb. RS 25-21,275
§ 50.06 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall
notify, in writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises
or their agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more
delinquent in the payment of the utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to report to the City Council a list of all unpaid
accounts due for utilities service together with a description of the premises
served. The report shall be examined and, if approved by the City Council,
shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to the County Clerk to be
collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Assessments authorized for sewer system, see Neb. RS 18-503
   Lien authorized for water and sewer delinquency, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-
925.01
§ 50.07 DEFERMENT OF PAYMENTS FOR UTILITIES AND UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer is hereby authorized and
given authority to allow an extension to utility customers for utility deposits
provided an agreement is signed to the extent and payments are made as provided
in said agreement.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer's office further can, in their
discretion as part of the conference as set forth in § 50.03, allow payments
for any utility bills, water, sewer and garbage to be extended, provided that
an Extended Payment Agreement is executed by the utility customer and payments
are made in accordance with the terms of said Extended Payment Agreement. The
condition of said Extended Payment Agreement is that the customer acknowledges
that his utilities may be disconnected without further notice unless the
payments are made pursuant to the Extended Payment Agreement.
(Ord. 2006-O-029, passed 11-6-06)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Collection and disposal
   
51.03   Mandatory service
   
51.04   Contracts for service
   
51.05   Construction and demolition waste; collection site; transfer
   
51.06   Collection equipment required
   
51.07   Rates
   
51.08   Fees and collections; liability for charges; proof
   
51.09   Liens
   
51.10   Licensed facilities
   
51.11   Private collection services prohibited
   
51.12   Tress and tree branches
   
51.13   Disposal of hazardous waste; special handling
   
51.14   Single premises; acceptance of additional waste prohibited
   
51.15   Additional regulations
   
51.16   Violations
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Waste which typically results from
construction or demolition projects and includes all materials which are the
byproducts of construction work or which result from demolition of buildings
and other structures, including, but not limited to brick, concrete rubble,
masonry materials, paper, gypsum board, wood, rubber, and plastics.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE does not include friable asbestos-containing
materials, liquid waste, hazardous waste, putrescible waste, or furnishings
from demolished structures.
      GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal,
fruit or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit,
or vegetable.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by
NAC Title 128 - Rules and Regulations Governing Hazardous Waste Management in
Nebraska, which for purposes of general definition is a solid waste which,
because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
         (a)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality
or an increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness;
or
         (b)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
      JUNK. Materials which will not be utilized if not collected and processed
for reuse or recycling, including but not limited to mean: old scrap; copper;
brass; iron; steel; rope; wire; glass; rags; batteries; paper trash; rubber;
debris; demolition waste; abandoned mobile homes, dismantled or wrecked;
untaxed, untitled or unlicensed vehicles or parts thereof; and other old or
scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
      MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Household waste and/or the combination of
household waste with industrial or commercial solid wastes.
      MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE JURISDICTION AREA. All the incorporated areas of
the municipality and all areas adjacent to city served by municipal utility
services.
      RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Single family households.
      REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and includes garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, industrial wastes, and other such wastes.
      RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind that will
be a detriment to the public health and safety.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded materials, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, and mining operations, and from
community activities.
      YARD WASTE. Accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, and
other organic materials collected as a result of the care of lawns, shrubbery,
vines and gardens.
   (B)   Any other term, as may be used and not otherwise defined herein, shall
have the meaning given such term in Title 132, Chapter 1, Nebraska Department
of Environmental Quality and all references
herein to TITLE 132 shall mean TITLE 132 - RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO
WASTE MANAGEMENT OF THE NEBRASKA DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY.
(`77 Code, § 3-902)
§ 51.02 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The municipality shall provide for the collection and disposal of
nonhazardous municipal solid waste from residential, commercial, institutional,
and governmental premises within the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area.
Such wastes shall be collected on a regularly scheduled basis and shall be
disposed of only in a licensed landfill facility approved by the City Council
which meets all state and federal criteria. The City Council of the
municipality shall approve and is authorized to contract with any such licensed
landfill facility for these purposes.
(`77 Code, § 3-903)
    (B)   Container size shall be as follows: Residential, maximum capacity: 95
gallons.
   (C)   Solid waste placed in plastic bags, but not in an additional
container, shall not be collected.
   (D)   Solid waste shall be collected in residential areas once per week.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 MANDATORY SERVICE.
   Every occupied residence and every commercial, institutional, multiple
residence, apartment, hotel, motel, and governmental building or premises in
which day-to-day activities are conducted within the municipal solid waste
jurisdiction area shall be served by the solid waste collection and disposal
service system offered by the municipality and shall be subject to the
assessment and payment of charges for such service as set from time to time by
the governing body of the municipality. The municipality may also agree to
provide such service to persons who do not live within the corporate limits of
the municipality, but who are served by municipal utility services of any kind
or who are within such close distance to the corporate limits of the
municipality as to make such service economical and practical for the
municipality and its contracted hauler.
(`77 Code, § 3-904)
§ 51.04 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   The municipality may contract with an independent contractor to provide for
the collection and disposal of nonhazardous municipal solid waste. Such
contractor shall be selected by competitive bidding and the length of the term
of any such contract shall be determined by the Mayor and Council, not to
exceed five years. Any such contractor shall enter into a written agreement
with the municipality, which agreement shall provide for the rates to be
charged by the contractor and such other terms and conditions as may be
required by the Mayor and Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-905)
§ 51.05 CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE; COLLECTION SITE; TRANSFER.
   With appropriate permit from the Nebraska Department of Environmental
Quality, the municipality shall provide a solid waste transfer station at the
municipal landfill for the collection and transfer of construction and
demolition waste created and collected from within the municipal solid waste
jurisdiction area. The City Council shall designate and establish a site within
the municipal landfill for such solid waste transfer station and shall set the
time or times such landfill and solid waste transfer station shall be open for
receipt of such construction and demolition waste. Each party using the solid
waste transfer station for the collection and transfer of construction and
demolition waste created and collected from within the municipal solid waste
jurisdiction area shall pay the municipality an amount equal to $.08 per pound
for each pound of construction and demolition waste deposited at such transfer
station. The municipality may contract with an independent contractor to
provide for such solid waste transfer station. No construction or demolition
waste shall otherwise be disposed of at or within the municipal landfill,
except through deposit at the designated solid waste transfer station.
(`77 Code, § 3-906) (Am. Ord. 1995-O-008, passed 3-6-95)
§ 51.06 COLLECTION EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   Solid waste shall be collected only in vehicles equipped with a trash bed
constructed of substantial metal material, and such bed shall be completely
enclosed. The body and bed of any vehicle used in the collection or
transportation of solid wastes shall be maintained in a clean and odor-free
condition. Before any person, firm, or corporation may engage in the business
of collecting, hauling, or transporting nonhazardous solid waste within the
municipality, they shall demonstrate to the Mayor and Council that they
currently own or have made proper provision for all required equipment.
(`77 Code, § 3-907)
§ 51.07 RATES.
   (A)   Each residential customer who is served by the municipal solid waste
collection system shall pay a basic monthly rate of $10.
   (B)   Each multiple residence, apartment, hotel, motel, commercial,
institutional or governmental customer shall pay such basic monthly rate for
service by the municipal solid waste collection system as may be negotiated
with the contractor providing the solid waste collection service. No such fees
or rates as negotiated with the contractor shall be effective or collectible
unless within a schedule of rates approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Any additional service which is required by any customer shall be
negotiated between the customer and the contractor and shall be at the
customer's own expense. Customers shall provide access to their property so
that the contractor can use its equipment to collect solid waste.
(`77 Code, § 3-908)
§ 51.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS; LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF.
   (A)   (1)   Municipal solid waste collection billings for residential
customers shall be due and payable monthly in advance, shall be issued
concurrently with the municipal water billings and sewer use billings and shall
be payable at the office of the Administrative Clerk of the city. Billings for
municipal solid waste collection services will be rendered by the municipality
for residential customers only, and billings for multiple residence, apartment,
motel, hotel, commercial, institutional, and governmental customers within the
municipal solid waste jurisdiction area shall be the responsibility of the
contractor furnishing the solid waste collection services.
      (2)   Municipal solid waste collection billings shall be due and payable
on the first day of each month and shall be paid by the fifteenth of each
month. Municipal solid waste collection billings not paid by the fifteenth of
each month shall be deemed delinquent. Upon such billings becoming delinquent,
the Administrative Clerk shall give a written notice to the residential
customer of such delinquency and shall demand immediate payment.
      (3)   If payment of the municipal solid waste collection charges is not
received as aforesaid, the Administrative Clerk shall follow the procedures to
disconnect and discontinue both municipal water and municipal solid waste
collection services to the residential customer, such services to be deemed a
combined utility for these purposes. The Administrative Clerk shall assess an
additional fee set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the office
of the Administrative Clerk in the event that water is shut off and solid waste
collection services discontinued for the nonpayment of any municipal solid
waste collection billings to compensate the municipality for the additional
hookup necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent residential
customer.
(`77 Code, § 3-909)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council has separately established charges to be paid
to it by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of such charges, a person's premises are deemed
to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the owner and
occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable for the
charges unless the owner or occupant proves to the City Council that:
         (a)   The premises are unoccupied; or
         (b)   The solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
ordinances.
      (2)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may
be provided by means of any of the following:
         (a)   A billing receipt or other statement from a duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period;
         (b)   A billing receipt or register tab from a duly permitted transfer
station or disposal facility or landfill for solid waste received during the
applicable billing period; or
         (c)   Such other documentation of proper disposal as may be acceptable
to the governing body.
(`77 Code, § 3-919) (Ord. 1999-O-007, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2020
§ 51.09 LIENS.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, if a residential customer shall,
for any reason, remain indebted to the municipality for solid waste collection
services furnished by municipality or its contractor, such amount due, together
with any charges in arrears, shall be considered delinquent and are hereby
declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the same was furnished.
   (B)   Following notice by regular United States mail to the last-known
address of the property owner of record of the property served by such solid
waste collection service and an opportunity for hearing, the delinquent service
charge may be certified by the City Council to the County Treasurer and
assessed against the premises served and collected or returned in the same
manner as other taxes are certified, assessed, collected, and returned.
(`77 Code, § 3-910)
Statutory reference:
   Liens, see Neb. RS 13-2020(4)
§ 51.10 LICENSED FACILITIES.
   (A)   All nonhazardous municipal solid waste collection within the municipal
solid waste jurisdiction area shall be disposed of only in a licensed solid
waste facility approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Any hazardous waste shall be disposed of only in the manner provided
by state or federal laws and regulations.
(`77 Code, § 3-911)
§ 51.11 PRIVATE COLLECTION SERVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm or corporation who is not under contract with the
municipality shall collect or dispose of nonhazardous municipal solid waste
within the municipality, except yard wastes, grass clippings, tree branches, or
other materials which are collected for recycling or otherwise properly
disposed of in accordance with law.
(`77 Code, § 3-912) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12 TREES AND TREE BRANCHES.
   Provided the municipality secures and maintains a permit from the Nebraska
Department of Environmental Quality, pursuant to Title 128, the municipality
shall designate and provide an area within the municipal landfill for the
receipt, storage, and/or disposal of trees, tree limbs, and tree branches
gathered from within the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area. Such disposal
site shall be made available, at no charge, at the time or times specified by
the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-913)
§ 51.13 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS WASTE; SPECIAL HANDLING.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation within the solid waste jurisdiction
area of the city who generates or creates hazardous waste or waste requiring
special handling or disposal shall be responsible for the transportation and
disposal of the same. All such handling and disposal shall, in all respects,
comply with state and federal laws and regulations pertaining to the specific
type of waste generated.
(`77 Code, § 3-914)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall put out any of the items specified below to be
collected by the municipal solid waste collector for land disposal:
         (a)   Lead-acid batteries.
         (b)   Waste oil.
         (c)   Waste tires in any form except tires that are nonrecyclable.
Tires are not considered disposed if they meet the requirements of Neb. RS 13-
2039.
         (d)   Discarded household appliances.
         (e)   Unregulated hazardous wastes, except household hazardous wastes,
which are exempt from the regulations under the Environmental Protection Act.
      (2)   Any such items shall be disposed of only as permitted under the
Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act or any amendments thereof.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Land disposal includes, but is not limited to, incineration at a
landfill.
      (2)   Nonrecyclable tire means a press-on solid tire, a solid pneumatic
shaped tire, or a foam pneumatic tire.
(Neb. RS 13-2039)
      (3)   Waste tire means a tire that is no longer suitable for its original
intended purpose because of wear, damage, or defect. (Neb. RS 13-2013.02)
(`77 Code, § 3-916)
§ 51.14 SINGLE PREMISES; ACCEPTANCE OF ADDITIONAL WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall accept from any other person any of such other person's
disposable solid waste to be commingled with and disposed of as a part of the
accepting person's solid waste. All solid waste which is to be picked up by the
municipality or its contractor for each residence and for each commercial,
institutional, apartment, multiple family, hotel, motel, or governmental
building shall be only the solid waste which is generated at that site and
shall not include any items left for disposal by any other person.
(`77 Code, § 3-915) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, make and adopt by resolution such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operation and control of
the solid waste collection system and the regulation of municipal solid waste
within the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem necessary to
promote the efficient operation and management of the system and to protect the
environment and the health, safety, and welfare of all persons within the
municipality's solid waste jurisdiction area.
(`77 Code, § 3-917)
§ 51.16 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Complaints regarding the violation of the terms of any agreement
entered into between the contractor and the municipality for municipal solid
waste collection and disposal services shall be directed to the contractor by
the municipality in writing and the contractor shall have such time as may be
set by the City Council within which to correct the violations. If violations
are not corrected within the specified time, the governing body may vote to
revoke the contract at a regular or special City Council meeting that
contractor has been given notice of by certified mail at least seven days prior
to such meeting. Revocation of the contract shall be deemed effective by
sending such notice to the contractor, by certified mail, stating the date that
service is terminated, after the City Council has voted for revocation.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person, firm or
corporation in the municipality or in the municipal solid waste jurisdiction
area to conduct or operate any type of dump or waste disposal system for the
use of themselves or other persons.
      (2)   Each day of operation or conduct of such waste disposal system or
transfer site or other means of disposing garbage within the city shall
constitute a separate violation by the person, firm or corporation punishable
by a fine for each violation.
   (C)   In addition to the above referenced penalty, any person, firm or
corporation within the city which conducts, operates or uses any type of dump
or waste disposal system for themselves or other persons, other than the city's
solid waste disposal service, shall also be subject to a noncompliance fee of
up to $500 pursuant to the provisions of § 13-2023 of the Integrated Solid
Waste Management Act.
   (D)   No property owner or person in lawful possession of property shall
allow the accumulation of junk or municipal solid waste on such property to the
extent that such accumulation is a potential hazard to public health or safety.
Each day such municipal solid waste or junk is allowed to accumulate on such
property shall constitute a separate violation and shall be punishable by a
fine for each violation.
(`77 Code, § 3-918) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Water Department; operation and funding
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Rates and charges; collection; billing
   
52.04   Lien
   
52.05   Licensed plumber
   
52.06   Fluoridation
Use and General Regulations
   
52.15   Consumer's application
   
52.16   Water contract; furnishment of water; service contracts
   
52.17   Installation procedure; expense
   
52.18   Repairs
   
52.19   Single premise; supply to other premise
   
52.20   Restricted use
   
52.21   Fire hydrants
   
52.22   Well drilling
   
52.23   Mandatory hookup
   
52.24   Inspection
   
52.25   Destruction of property
   
52.26   Taps; time of work
   
52.27   Unsafe physical connection; potential backflow hazards
   
52.28   Backflow prevention devices; customer installation and testing
   
52.29   Restriction of water use
   
52.30   Commercial bulk water sales
   
52.31   Wellhead protection area
Cross-reference:
   Water Department, see
32.20
   Water wells, see
Chapter 97
Statutory reference:
   General provisions on waterworks, see Neb. RS 17-531 et seq.
   Combined utility revenue bonds, see Neb. RS 19-1305 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department
through the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
taxable value of all taxable property within the corporate limits that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the Water Fund
and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The Water
Commissioner shall have the direct management and control of the Municipal
Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her
office. The Water Commissioner shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Water Department
subject to the supervision and review of the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council shall set the rates to be charged for services
rendered and shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(`77 Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
   Authority to assess rates, see neb. RS 17-538
   Taxing authority, see Neb. RS 17-534, 17-538, 17-544, and 17-545
   Waterworks acquisition and construction authorized, see Neb. RS 17-531
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and disbursing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premise may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premise where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box,
or curb cock is located.
(`77 Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.03 RATES AND CHARGES; COLLECTION; BILLING.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates to
be paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department.
All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall receive all payments from water
applicants for water or water related services provided by the city. However,
the owner of the property, even if not the applicant, has the ultimate
responsibility for payment of water charges including payment of any arrearage
still owed by tenant for any water bill.
   (B)   The following monthly rates or use charges or fees shall be levied
against and collected from each consumer and each property served directly or
indirectly by the water system of the city.
      (1)   Deposit. A security deposit in the amount of $100 shall be required
to commence water service to any new location, whether residential, commercial,
or any other specified location, where the applicant is not the owner. Said
deposit shall be kept on file by the Municipal Clerk and shall be returned to
the renter or tenant after one year of service if the customer is current with
their account, otherwise it shall be applied against any unpaid balance owed by
the renter or tenant.
      (2)   Single-unit residential meter; multiple-unit residential meter
commercial and industrial meters; mobile home courts. Where each of the
preceding units is serviced by one separate meter, the following schedule or
rates or use charges or fees for consumption of municipal water is hereby set
and established:
         (a)   A minimum base rate for all users is $26 per month. In addition
to the minimum base rate, each user shall pay $1.60 for each 1,000 gallons
used.
         (b)   Usage in excess of 100,000 gallons shall be at a rate of $1.30
for each 1,000 gallons used.
         (c)   Minimum charge; discounts. In no case shall the minimum charge
for water service based upon the above schedule of rates, on a monthly basis as
stated above, be less than $26. No discounts will be allowed.
(`77 Code, § 3-109)
   (C)   (1)   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The Public Works Department shall read, or cause
to be read, water meters monthly between the twenty-fifth day and the thirtieth
day of the month following the end of the month during which service was used.
      (2)   To facilitate billing and to minimize the cost of reading such
meters, the Public Works Director, at his or her discretion, may order,
establish, and implement an alternate system whereby one half of all meters of
customers of the municipal water system would be read and billed each month,
with the water usage of the remaining one half of the meters to be estimated
and billed for such month based on prior usage. Those meters in which water
usage was estimated in any one month would be read the following month, with
appropriate adjustment or additional charge to be made to the customer’s
billing for the subsequent month, based upon actual water usage for such two-
month period as shown by the water meter reading.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the customers of the Water Department to
pay their bills in net cash. The Public Works Director shall direct the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to charge and collect from each customer for the
amount of water consumed since the last examination, together with any other
credits for payment made on estimated billings as provided herein. Bills shall
be billed out by the first of each month and due by the fifteenth of each
month.
      (4)   Bills not paid by the fifteenth of each month shall be deemed late
and have a late fee in the amount of $5 assessed. Bills not paid by the
fifteenth, shall be deemed to be delinquent.
      (5)   Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein defined, the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall give a written notice to the customer of such
delinquency and service may be discontinued, in accordance with the procedure
set forth in §
50.03. In the event that the bill is not paid within seven days after the
notice, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall assess an additional fee of $50,
known as a delinquent fee, to compensate the municipality for the time and
energy required by city personnel to collect these accounts.
      (6)   In the event the water is shut off for nonpayment of any water
bill, the Public Works Director may assess an additional fee, besides the
above-noted late fee, hookup which will be due before water services are
restored. The late fees and hookup fees shall be set by the governing body by
resolution.
(`77 Code, § 3-110) (Ord. 2001-O-03, passed 2-5-01; Am. Ord. 2002-O-001, passed
2-4-02; Am. Ord. 2002-O-014, passed 7-1-2002; Am. Ord. 2004-O-010, passed 6-7-
04; Am. Ord. 2009-O-008, passed 6- 1-09; Am. Ord. 2011-O-027, passed 12-5-11;
Am. Ord. 2012-O-022, passed 12-5-12; Am. Ord. 2015-O-031, passed 9-14-15; Am.
Ord. 2017-O-006, passed 5-1-17; Am. Ord. 2018-O-013, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord.
2019-O-005, passed 5-6-19; Am. Ord. 2022-O-012, passed 10-3-22)
§ 52.04 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall, for any reason,
remain indebted to the municipality for water service furnished, such amount
due, together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall notify
in writing or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner on the
first day of January, the first day of March, the first day of June and the
first day of September of each year to report to the governing body a list of
all unpaid accounts due for water together with a description of the premise
upon which the same was used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by
the governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to the
County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(`77 Code, § 3-111) (Ord. 2003-O-004, passed 4-7-03)
Statutory reference:
   Lien authorized for water delinquency, see Neb. RS 17-538
§ 52.05 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipe fitter to do any work
upon any of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make
any connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking
water from the system until such plumber or pipe fitter shall have first
procured a license or permit from the municipality. All plumbing shall be done
in the manner required by the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   The licensed plumber shall be, at all times, subject to the inspection
and approval of the Water Commissioner and it shall be further unlawful to
cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(`77 Code, § 3-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 FLUORIDATION.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the City of Ravenna.
(Ord. 2008-O-019, passed 12-1-08)
USE AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make
application therefor to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The Clerk/Treasurer may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she
deems necessary subject to the review of the City Council. Water may not be
supplied to any house or private service pipe, except upon the order of the
Water Commissioner.
   (B)   The Department shall not supply to any person outside the corporate
limits water service without special permission from the City Council;
provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall
be paid by the consumer.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide water service to non-residents.
(`77 Code, § 3-103)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt regulations, see Neb. RS 17-537
   Authority to sell water beyond corporate boundaries, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.16 WATER CONTRACT; FURNISHMENT OF SERVICE; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish
water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose
premises do not abut a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is
now or may hereafter be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose
premises are situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and
when, according to law, the City Council may see fit to do so.
      (2)   The rules, regulations, and water rates, hereinafter named, shall
be considered a part of every application hereafter made for water service
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of application on the
part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present
consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to the consumer shall
constitute a contract between the consumer and the municipality, to which the
contract both parties are bound.
      (3)   If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of the contract
or any reasonable rules and regulations that the City Council may hereafter
adopt, the Water Commissioner or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect
the water service from the building or premise or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to the building, premise, or place shall
again be made, save or except by order of the Commissioner or his or her agent.
(`77 Code, § 3-104)
   (B)   (1)   Contracts for water service are not transferable.
      (2)   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall
make a new application and sign a new contract. If any consumer moves from the
premise where service is furnished, or if the premise is destroyed by fire or
other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Water Commissioner who shall
cause the water service to be shut off at the premise.
      (3)   If the consumer fails to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all water used on the premise until the Water Commissioner is
otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(`77 Code, § 3-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.17 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE; EXPENSE.
   (A)   (1)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth
must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least
inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall
leave an excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time
without a barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes
are laid, the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good
condition. If the excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or
unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Water Commissioner shall have
the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be
charged to the consumer.
      (2)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Water Commissioner. The first inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the service is restored.
      (3)   It is the customer's responsibility to notify the Commissioner at
the time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations,
and specifications prescribed for such installation by the Water Commissioner;
provided that the rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and
approved by the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-105)
   (B)   (1)   The expense of providing the water service main shall be paid by
the municipality. The consumer shall then pay the cost of installation and pipe
from the main to the place of dispersal. The cost of the installation of a city
approved meter shall be paid by the consumer. The consumer shall be required to
pay the expense of procuring the services of a plumber with a Ravenna permit
and shall pay the expense of furnishing and installing the pipe, trenching and
the necessary labor to bring water service from the lot line to the place of
dispersement.
      (2)   The municipality shall install a tap on the water service main and
shall pay the expense of trenching necessary to install such tap. In addition
to the cost of the meter, the consumer shall pay to the municipality a tap fee
of $600 plus the cost of boring for all lines up to two inches. If the line is
two inches or over, the consumer shall pay to the municipality a tap fee of
$800 plus the cost of boring. The consumer also shall pay additional costs of
demolition and repair of streets/driveways necessary to provide a tap.
(`77 Code, § 3-106) (Am. Ord. 336, passed 2-2-81; Am. Ord. 1995-O-12, passed 4-
3-95; Am. Ord. 2003-O-009, passed 4-21-03)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to fix rates, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-542
§ 52.18 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Repairs to the service pipe from the shutoff of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed shall be made by
and at the expense of the consumer, and all work and materials used in such
repair must be approved by the Municipal Water Commissioner. Repairs to the
supply pipe from the main to the property line of the consumer and all other
repairs to the property of the Water Department, including the meter, shall be
made by the municipality, at the expense of the municipality, except that the
consumer shall, in all events, be liable for the actual cost of the replacement
of the supply pipe from the main and the service pipe to the place of
disbursement as in the case of a new tap or installation if such lines or a
substantial portion thereof should completely wear out and require replacement
on account of ordinary use over a period of years.
   (B)   (1)   When meters are worn out or when, in the discretion of the Water
Commissioner, the condition of any such meters does not justify the cost of
their report, they shall be replaced and reset by the municipality at the
expense of the consumer. All meters shall be tested at the consumer’s request
at the expense of the consumer any reasonable number of times; provided, that
if the test shows the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of
such test shall be borne by the municipality.
      (2)   The municipality reserves the right to test any water service meter
at any time, and if the meter is found to be beyond repair or if such repair,
at the discretion of the Water Commissioner, would exceed 50% of the cost of a
new water meter, the municipality shall always have the right to place a new
meter on the customer’s water service fixtures at the consumer’s expense.
      (3)   If a consumer’s meter fails to register properly, the consumer
shall be charged for water during the time the meter is out of repair on the
basis of the monthly consumption on the premises during the same month of the
preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for exists, the consumer shall
be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Water Commissioner
taking into consideration the monthly consumption for the most recent month in
which the meter was known to be in good working order.
(`77 Code, § 3-107) (Am. Ord. 409, passed 2-3-86; Am. Ord. 1991-O-015, passed
12-2-92; Am. Ord. 2015-O-040, passed 12-7-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to require meters, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.19 SINGLE PREMISE; SUPPLY TO OTHER PREMISE.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to
take water from his or her premise, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter or by means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the
service pipe so that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing
through the meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(`77 Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.20 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The City Council or the Water Commissioner may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premise in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause.
   (B)   The municipality shall not be liable for any damages caused by
shutting off the supply of water of any consumer while the system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to
circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(`77 Code, § 3-113)
§ 52.21 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(`77 Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22 WELL DRILLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drill any domestic,
irrigation, industrial, or any well of any kind within 1,000 feet of a
municipal water well.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drill or locate any
domestic, irrigation, or industrial well outside of 1,000 feet of any other
municipal, industrial, or irrigation well without first gaining a permit signed
by the Water Commissioner.
      (1)   This application for registration of a well must be filed with the
City Clerk/Treasurer and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location of the well;
         (b)   Depth and dynamics of the well;
         (c)   Use of the well;
         (d)   Source of pollutants in the immediate area of the well;
         (e)   Location of the well to make sure this well source did not
become contaminated;
         (f)   Safeguards that the driller of the well intends to take to
insure the water source does not contaminate any other residential or municipal
water sources located within the community;
         (g)   All hydrologic data used in preparing the well;
         (h)   All engineers drawings and specifications;
         (i)   A list of all the other registered wells within the recharged
area;
         (j)   1.   Sufficient hydrologic information to identify the extent
and scope of the naturally occurring underground water storage; and
            2.   The hydrologic evaluation report shall include, but not be
limited to the following:
               a.   A detailed description of each well proposed to be included
under this permit; and (The description shall include the intended depth,
screen and casing size, pump capacity, description of location, applicable well
registration numbers, control and management area permit numbers.)
               b.   A narrative evaluating the geologic and hydrologic
conditions of the well site and review area.
         (k)   Water table maps describing the water levels;
         (l)   A description of the actual proposed operation of the water
project;
         (m)   Location of the proposed well in relation to sources of
potential contamination including feedlots, oil and gas leaks, or underground
storage facilities; and
         (n)   An environmental impact analysis. This analysis shall discuss
the environmental impacts of the project.
      (2)   (a)   Provided that the application itself does not show any
potential for contamination and that adequate safeguards have been taken to
make sure that there is no contamination of the residential or the municipal
water sources, and provided that these same sources cannot be provided by the
existing municipal water system, the Water Commissioner may approve the permit.
         (b)   In the event anyone attempts to draw a well, either within 1,000
feet of any other well or outside of the 1,000 foot area, but has not received
a permit, shall, in addition to a fine, will be liable to have this drilling
enjoined by action of the District Court and shall be subject to such
injunction, in addition to the rights and remedies allowed by statute.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any persons or person to drill a well
in order to install a Geothermal Heat Pump (closed loop) heat system, without a
permit. An applicant desiring the permit must first apply for a Geothermal Heat
Pump Permit and obtain permission from the City Water Commissioner before
drilling is permitted. The permit will be issue if the closed loop heat pump
system has met the following criteria:
         (a)   Water wells constructed for a closed loop heat pump system shall
not be located less than 100 feet from a public water supply well (Title 178,
Chapter 12,010.02 Bla);
         (b)   Wells located between 100 and 600 feet from a public water
supply well must pass a pressure test (Title 178, Chapter 12,010.02H);
         (c)   Applicant will be responsible for contacting the Digger's
Hotline for dig permits;
         (d)   Applicant must provide the name and phone numbers for the
licensed plumbers and well drillers involved in the installation of the
geothermal heat pump;
         (e)   Antifreeze material or circulating fluids used in the system
shall be food grade potassium acetate or food grade propylene glycol (Title
178, Chapter 12,010.0G);
         (f)   All construction practices must follow those set forth by Title
178, Chapter 12,010 Groundwater Heat Pump Wells;
         (g)   The geothermal well will be cataloged as a private well in the
Wellhead Protection Act Inventory and will follow the guidelines set forth in
said Act;
         (h)   The heat pump system will not be connected in any way to the
municipal water supply; and
         (i)   The owner of the property on which the well is located will be
responsible for maintaining the well in such a way as to prevent the future
contamination of the municipal water supply. If the well fails it shall be
properly repaired or material replaced or plugged as per State of Nebraska
Guidelines.
      (2)   The application for registration of this geothermal heat pump well
must be obtained for any one who wishes to drill a well within the city limits
or within 1,000 feet of the municipal water well.
      (3)   In the event anyone attempts to drill a well within the city limits
but has not received permit from the Water Commissioner, they shall, in
addition to a fine, be liable to have the drilling enjoined by an action of the
District Court and subject to such injunction in addition to any other rights
and remedies provided by statute.
(`77 Code, §3-115) (Am. Ord. 1992-O-002, passed 2-3-92; Am. Ord. 1996-O-014,
passed 6-3-96; Am. Ord. 2003-O-025, passed 10-6-03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.23 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hookup with the municipal water system.
(`77 Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory references:
   Authority to require connection to main, see Neb. RS 17-532
§ 52.24 INSPECTION.
   The Water Commissioner, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(`77 Code, § 3-118)
§ 52.25 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department.
   (B)   No person may deposit anything in a stop box or commit any act tending
to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned property
without the written permission of the Water Commissioner.
(`77 Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.26 TAPS; TIME OF WORK.
   All taps or plumbing work done on or to the municipal water system shall be
done between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(`77 Code, § 3-121)
§ 52.27 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION; POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplied, or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and back-siphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the Municipal Water
Commissioner.
(`77 Code, § 3-124) (Ord. 1992-O-017, passed 11-13-92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Utilities Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179, Health and Human Services System, and approved by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain, at a minimum, the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection, and the
type of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether such installation will
protect the municipal water distribution system from potential backflow and
back-siphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber licensed by the municipality if applicable. Such customer shall also
certify to the municipality at least one time annually that the backflow
prevention device has been tested by a Nebraska Department of Health Grade VI
Certified Water Operator if the device is equipped with a test port. Such
certification shall be made on a form available at the office of the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer.
   (E)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
Council.
   (F)   Definitions.
      (1)   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this
section shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common
usage and so as to give this section its most reasonable application.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner is authorized and directed to enforce all
the provisions of this section and all other ordinances of the city now in
force or hereafter adopted, relating to water services, supply, or other water
regulations. During the temporary absence or disability of the Water
Commissioner, the Mayor and the city shall designate an acting enforcement
official.
      (3)   The term "person" shall mean person, firm or corporation.
   (G)   Permits required.
      (1)   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, or improve any
underground sprinkler or underground irrigation system which is intended to be
connected to the water system of the city or without complying with the below
requirements and obtaining a separate permit for each system.
      (2)   Application. The application for a permit is to be made in writing
at the office of the City Clerk on a form furnished for that purpose. Each
application shall:
         (a)   Identify and describe the project to be covered by the permit;
         (b)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done in
such a manner that it will readily identify and locate the proposed
construction site;
         (c)   Indicate the use or occupancy for the property on which the
proposed work is intended;
         (d)   Be accompanied by plans or specifications for proposed
construction, including point of hookup;
         (e)   Be signed by the permittee or his authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
         (f)   Be accompanied by a statement of the pressure in the line as
indicated by the best available means of the City Engineer. For installation,
this figure must be at least 20 psi;
         (g)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Water Commissioner; and
         (h)   Pay a fee for said permit as established by the Mayor and City
Council.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall review all permit applications to
determine if the proposed development is feasible, will not impair the water
pressure or water supply of other users in the area, and that all necessary
permits have been received as required by federal or state law.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, in reviewing all applications for new
construction and substantial improvements of underground systems or watering
systems, will require that all construction:
         (a)   Shall meet the requirements of the National Plumbing Code as
they pertain to lawn sprinkling systems;
         (b)   Be designed or constructed to minimize the loss of pressure to
other residents in the surrounding area. The maximum flow shall be ten gallons
per minute for residential, and will not operate at times of peak water usage.
Each nonresidential application will be considered separately;
         (c)   All connections to city water system shall be in the same manner
as provided in other parts of the municipal ordinance and shall be performed
only by city personnel; and
         (d)   All systems must be equipped with a pressure type vacuum breaker
(backflow preventer) which will prevent any water in the systems from returning
back into the city water system. An anti-siphon device will not be
satisfactory.
      (5)   All devices installed in potable water supply systems for
protection against backflow shall be maintained in good working condition. No
device shall be removed from use, relocated, or other device substituted
without the approval of the Water Commissioner.
      (6)   Construction of non-residential property. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this subsection are
satisfied. Such certification shall accompany application.
   (H)   Once a permit is granted, installation of the system must be completed
within 60 days. The City Council may extend this time for adverse weather or
other unavoidable conditions. Prior to connecting the system, the system must
be inspected and approved by the Water Commissioner.
   (I)   Backflow devices must be tested at the time of installation, when
repaired, and at least every 36 months thereafter. The owner will submit all
test reports to the Water Commissioner.
   (J)   Applicant will be responsible for contacting the Digger's Hotline for
dig permits.
   (K)   The owner of the property on which the underground lawn sprinkler
system is located will be responsible for maintaining the underground lawn
sprinkler system in such a way as to prevent the future contamination of the
municipal water supply.
(`77 Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 1995-O-001, passed 1-9-95; Am. Ord. 2004-O-009,
passed 7-12-04)
§ 52.29 RESTRICTION OF WATER USE.
   (A)   Upon notice from the Water Commissioner, the use of water for all uses
except domestic uses shall cease during a fire alarm or during a fire. Water
use may resume upon notice by the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   In the case of shortage, imminent shortage, drought, possible
contamination, or for other good or sufficient cause, the use of water may be
restricted according to a restriction plan adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to
have been committed every 24 hours of each failure to comply.
(Ord. 2002-O-009, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 52.30 COMMERCIAL BULK WATER SALES.
   (A)   Permit acquired. Any consumer wanting to fill tanks or large equipment
with water and not having a permanent connection, or contract with the city,
shall be required to apply for a temporary bulk water permit.
   (B)   Deposit. Along with the application, the consumer must provide a
deposit to guarantee payment of the water and any additional fees. The Water
Commissioner may waive any required deposit on a case by case basis.
   (C)   Rate. Consumers shall be charged $0.30 per each 100 gallons of water
pumped.
   (D)   Additional hook-up and disconnect. If the consumer is not able to use
the overhead fill station available at the City Maintenance shed, then an
additional fee of $40 shall be charged for each time a hook-up and disconnect
is needed for the meter and backflow device to be allowed to calibrate the
water usage from a fire hydrant.
(Ord. 2005-O-005, passed 3-7-05)
§ 52.31 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
water well or well field, supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water well or
well field.
   (B)   Designation. The City Council designates a wellhead protection area
for the purpose of protecting the public water supply system. The wellhead
protection area is within Township 12 North, Range 14 West (Garfield Plat). The
boundary begins at the Northwest Corner of Section 5, then East to the
Northeast Corner of NW ¼ NE ¼ Section 5, then South to the Northeast corner of
SW ¼ NE ¼ Section 5, then East to the Northeast corner of SE ¼ NE ¼ Section 5,
then South to the Northwest corner of SW ¼ Section 4, then East to the
Northeast corner of SW ¼ Section 4, then South to the BNSF railroad tracks
located NE ¼ SW ¼ Section 9, it then follows the BNSF railroad tracks West-
Southwest to where the BNSF railroad tracks cross Mud Creek, it then follows
Mud Creek upstream to the East edge of the SW ¼ NW ¼ Section 8 and then North
on the West ¼ Section line of Section 8 to the Southwest corner of NE ¼ NW ¼
Section 8, then West to the Southwest corner of NW ¼ NW ¼ Section 8, then North
to the Southwest corner of Section 5, then West to the Southwest corner of SE ¼
SE ¼ Section 6, then North to the Northwest corner of NE ¼ SE ¼ Section 6, then
East to the Northwest corner of SW ¼ Section 5, then finally back North to the
Northwest corner of Section 5. Township 12 North, Range 14 West. This
delineation is based upon a map prepared by the Nebraska Department of
Environmental Quality presented to the City of Ravenna in the year 2000.
(Ord. 2004-O-012, passed 7-12-04)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Sewer Department; operation and funding
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Fees and collections; liens
Use and General Regulations
   
53.15   Application for permit
   
53.16   Sewer contract; service contracts
   
53.17   Mandatory hookup
   
53.18   Installation procedure
   
53.19   Repairs and maintenance
   
53.20   Classification
   
53.21   Unlawful use
   
53.22   Special equipment
   
53.23   Manholes
   
53.24   Inspections
   
53.25   Service to non-residents
Rates and Charges; Funds
   
53.35   Definitions
   
53.36   Rates and charges
   
53.37   Operation and maintenance; annual revenues
   
53.38   Basis for costs
   
53.39   Special assessments
Cross-reference:
   Sewer Department, see §
32.21
   Water wells, see
Chapter 97
Statutory reference:
   Authority for system of sewage and drainage, see Neb. RS 17-149
   Sewer systems generally, see Neb. RS 18-501 through 18-512
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the sewer system through the Sewer
Commissioner.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management and maintenance of the municipal sewer system may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate limits
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the
Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Sewer Commissioner shall have the direct management
and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully carry out the duties
of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject
to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(`77 Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Sewage and drainage districts; authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-149
   Authority to levy tax and establish rates, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house
or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the main
sewer.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food
and produce.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. Any pipe through which foul air is removed from a
room or fixture.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Receptacles intended to receive and discharge water
liquid or water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are
connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Shredding to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers
with no particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SOIL PIPE. Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   VENT PIPE. Any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage
system and to prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. Any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except
water closets, and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe, or waste
stack.
(`77 Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.03 FEES AND COLLECTIONS; LIENS.
   (A)   (1)    The City Council has the power and authority to fix the rates
to be paid by the customers of the Sewer Department or users of the city
treatment works, as herein above defined. All such fees shall be on file for
public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer shall have the duty of collecting the rental fees of the
customers of the Sewer Department or users of the city treatment works monthly
at the same time and in the same manner as water fees are collected.
      (2)   If a customer or user shall, for any reason, order the service
discontinued or shall vacate the premise, the amount due under the terms
hereof, together with any rental fees and charges in arrears, shall be
considered as a delinquent sewer rental which is hereby declared to be a lien
upon the premise or real estate for which or from which the sewer was used or
supplied, and upon the refusal of the customer to pay the delinquent sewer
rental, it shall be collected by being placed upon the assessment roll and tax
books for collection.
      (3)   Charges shall be delinquent at the same time and in the same manner
as water fees and charges are collected and deemed to be delinquent, and the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall add thereto the sum of 18% per annum on such
delinquent charge from date of delinquency to date of payment by way of penalty
for delinquency. Upon being deemed delinquent, the chief sewer official shall
proceed to give written notice to the delinquent customer (user) at the billing
address shown in the records of the city and shall therein demand payment
immediately.
      (4)   In the event that the delinquent sewer fee or charge is not paid
within seven days after sending such written notice, the customer or user's
water service shall be disconnected and discontinued as provided in §
50.03, and upon disconnection, service shall remain disconnected until all
amounts in arrears for sewer and water charges are paid in full together with
delinquency charges and a reconnection fee of $15 for resumption of service;
provided, that if the delinquent customer (user) is a known welfare recipient,
it shall be the duty of the chief sewer official to notify the customer (user)
and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed
termination.
(`77 Code, § 3-211) (Am. Ord. 439, passed 8-3-87; Am. Ord. 1991-O-018, passed
12-2-91)
   (B)   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer for any reason
remains indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount
due, together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a
delinquent sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall
notify, in writing, or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises
or their agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more
delinquent in the payment of sewer rent. It shall be the duty of the Sewer
Commissioner on June 1 of each year to report to the City Council a list of all
unpaid accounts due for sewer service together with a description of the
premise served. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the City
Council, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to the County
Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(`77 Code, § 3-217)
Statutory reference:
   Liens and assessments authorized for sewer delinquency, see Neb. RS 17-
925.01 and 18-503
USE AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 53.15 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Sewer Commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   The Commissioner may require any applicant to make a service
deposit in such amount as he or she deems necessary subject to the review of
the City Council.
      (2)   Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building, except
upon the written order of the Sewer Commissioner.
      (3)   The Sewer Department shall not supply sewer service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the City Council;
provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be
paid by such consumers.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the municipality to
provide sewer service to non-residents.
(`77 Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to sell sewer service beyond the corporate limits, see Neb. RS 19-
2701
§ 53.16 SEWER CONTRACT; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, through the Municipal Sewer Department, shall
furnish sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises
abut a street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be
laid. The municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises
are situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when,
according to law, the City Council may see fit to do so.
      (2)   The rules, regulations, and sewer rental rates, hereinafter named
herein, shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made for
sewer service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
customer now or hereafter served.
      (3)   Without further formality, the making of the application on the
part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof
shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality to which
contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate any of the
provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
City Council may hereafter adopt, the Sewer Commissioner, or his or her agent,
may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or premise of
such violation.
      (4)   No further connection for sewer service to such building or premise
shall again be made save or except by order of the Commissioner or his or her
agent.
(`77 Code, § 3-204)
   (B)   (1)   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable.
      (2)   Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall
make a new application and sign a new contract. If any customer shall move from
the premise where service is furnished, or if the premise is destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Sewer Commissioner who
shall cause the sewer service to be shut off from the premise.
      (3)   If the customer fails to give notice, he or she shall be charged
for that period of time until the official in charge of sewers is otherwise
advised of such circumstances.
(`77 Code, § 3-206)
§ 53.17 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   Upon written notice by the Sewer Commissioner the property owner, occupant,
or lessee of any premise within 300 feet of any sewer main shall without delay
cause the building to be connected with the sewer system and equipped with
inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected shall be connected
with the sewer system at the time of its construction. In the event that any
property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse, within a
period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her to do so by
registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation
in the municipality, to make such connection, the City Council shall have the
power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the
property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided for
collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(`77 Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to require connections and assess cost, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-
149.01
§ 53.18 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights.
   (B)   After the house sewer is laid, the public ways and property shall be
restored to good condition. If the excavation in the public ways and property
is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Sewer
Commissioner shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the
property.
   (C)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Sewer Commissioner.
      (1)   The first inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are
complete and before the pipe is covered.
      (2)   The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is
completed and the service restored.
      (3)   It is the customer's responsibility to notify the Sewer
Commissioner at the time the work is ready for each inspection.
   (D)   All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in
accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the Sewer Commissioner; provided, that the said
rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
City Council. The municipality shall install a tap on the sewer service main
and shall pay the expense of trenching necessary to install such tap. The
consumer shall pay to the municipality a total tap fee of $525: $55 for tapping
drill rental, $100 for labor, $325 for backhoe, $35 for four-inch rubber sewer
saddle and $10 for plastic sewer pipe. Additional charges will be collected for
boring, concrete repairs, and other appurtenant changes.
(`77 Code, § 3-207) (Ord. 2003-O-010, passed 5-12-03)
§ 53.19 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the customer to repair or replace,
all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to and including the
customer's property. All replacements and repairs made by the customer shall be
done in the manner and with the materials approved by the Sewer Commissioner;
provided, that the same have been previously approved by the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-208)
§ 53.20 CLASSIFICATION.
   The City Council may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers.
(`77 Code, § 3-209)
§ 53.21 UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface
drainage, or unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into the
municipal sewer system:
      (1)   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, other flammable, or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Sand, mud, metal, rags, paper, or other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewer system;
      (6)   Toxic of poisonous substances in sufficient quantity, either singly
or by interaction with other wastes, to interfere with or injure the sewage
treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans, animals, or fish, or create
any hazard in the receiving area of the sewage treatment plant;
      (7)   Suspended solids of such character and quantity that unusual
attention or expense is required to handle such materials;
      (8)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having other corrosive properties capable of causing damage to the structures,
equipment, and personnel of the Municipal Sewer Department;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing iron. chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as but not limited to sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions); and
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Council or to meet the requirements of the state,
federal, or other public agencies having jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters;
      (13)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (14)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300 parts
per million by weight, containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids, or having an average sewage flow greater than 2% of the
average sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the Mayor.
Where necessary, in the opinion of the Mayor, the owner shall provide, at his
or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the
biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by weight, reduce the
suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or control the quantities
and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans, specifications, and any
other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment
facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the City Council and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until such approvals are
obtained in writing.
(`77 Code, § 3-212) (Am. Ord. 441, passed 8-3-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.22 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department
discharges an unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount
of grease, sand, or oil, waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen
demand, or wastes containing excessive harmful or toxic wastes, the chief sewer
official may require the customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review
of the City Council. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased
and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer's expense.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special agreement
or arrangement between the City Council and an industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the
municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other charges.
   (B)   When required by the City Council, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City Council.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (C)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made herein shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.
      (2)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect constituents have upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
(`77 Code, § 3-213) (Ord. 440, passed 8-3-87)
§ 53.23 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(`77 Code, § 3-214) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.24 INSPECTIONS.
   The chief sewer official or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premise and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations hereof.
(`77 Code, § 3-215)
§ 53.25 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   Any person whose premise is located outside the corporate limits of the
municipality and who desires to install a house or building sewer that will be
connected with the municipal sewer system, shall file a written application
with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer for a permit for such connection and setting
forth the name of the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premise the use to
which the premise is devoted, and such other information as the City Council
may require.
(`77 Code, § 3-216)
RATES AND CHARGES; FUNDS
§ 53.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MULTI-FAMILY, COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, OR INSTITUTIONAL USER OR CONTRIBUTOR.
Any contributor to the city's treatment works other than a RESIDENTIAL
CONTRIBUTOR or RESIDENTIAL USER.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment work for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR or RESIDENTIAL USER. Any contributor to the city's
treatment works whose lot, parcel or real estate, or building is used and
metered for domestic single family residential dwelling purposes only.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection system, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply,
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisitions of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process as is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating,
reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal waste or
industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   WINTER QUARTER WATER USAGE. That water usage by domestic users for the
period commencing after the meter reading for December and prior to the meter
reading in April. In no event shall the water usage during this period have a
reading over 91 days. If the period for which the water usage is other than 91
days, city personnel will average the water usage per day and multiply it by 91
days.
(`77 Code, § 3-210) (Am. Ord. 438, passed 8-3-87; Am. Ord. 2007-O-001, passed
1-8-07)
§ 53.36 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of paying the costs of maintenance, operation and
retiring the debt of the sanitary sewer system, including the wastewater
treatment plant of the city, there shall be established, fixed, and imposed
upon the users of the system rates and charges for sewer service in the city.
   (B)   (1)   Rates.
         (a)   The rates for the following classes including residential,
single family and multi-family contributors shall be as follows:
            0 to 1,000 gallons   $25.00
            Amounts in excess of 1,000 gallons   $1.10 per 1,000 gallons
         (b)   The rates for regular business contributors, which shall include
all businesses except those listed under the classes of institutional,
commercial and industrial shall be as follows:
            0 to 1,000 gallons   $38.00
            Amounts in excess of 1,000 gallons   $2.10 per 1,000 gallons
         (c)   The rates for institutional contributors, which shall include
the following classes: Grand Manor, Seneca Sunrise and Ravenna Public School,
shall be as follows:
            Base rate for each month   $240.00
            Amounts in excess of the base rate   $1.10 per 1,000 gallons over
the base rate
         (d)   The rates for commercial and industrial contributors, which
shall include the following classes: Darling Ingredients, Inc., and Michael
Foods, Inc., shall be as follows:
            Base rate for each month   $1,125.00
            Amounts in excess of the base rate   $1.10 per 1,000 gallons over
the base rate
      (2)   In no case shall the minimum charge for sewer service based upon
the above schedule of rates, on a monthly basis as stated above, be less than
the amounts stated for each class. No discounts will be allowed.
      (3)   Rates are based upon winter quarter water usage as defined in §
53.35, except for commercial and industrial contributors which, because they
are metered, shall be based on water usage of the previous month.
      (4)   A basic minimum move-in rate of 3,000 gallons shall be paid by
consumers who have moved into any of the above user classes until winter
quarter water usage can be established, or people whose status is inactive
during winter months.
   (C)   The charge shall be levied to each property served by the sanitary
sewer system, regardless of location, and shall be included with the statement
for water service.
   (D)   Any user which discharges any substance, which singly or by
interaction with other substances, causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
such increased costs. The charge to each such user will be as determined by the
responsible plant operation personnel and approved by the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-210) (Am. Ord. 438, passed 8-3-87; Am. Ord. 463, passed 6-5-89;
Am. Ord. 1998-O-024, passed 10-5-98; Am. Ord. —, passed 4-1-06; Am. Ord. 2006-
O-027, passed 9-11-06; Am. Ord. 2008-O-028, passed 10-6-08; Am. Ord. 2022-O-
013, passed 10-3-22)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish rates, see Neb. RS 17-925.01 through 17-925.04
§ 53.37 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE; ANNUAL REVENUES.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance, including replacement and costs
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works which the city may, by ordinance, designate to be paid by the
user charge system.
   (B)   That portion of the total user charge collected, which is designated
for operation and maintenance including replacement purposes, as established in
§
53.36, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs, including replacement of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account); and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made annually from the
operation, maintenance and replacement revenue in the amount of $340 annually.
   (C)   (1)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance
account and the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts
in the subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other purposes than
those designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from
other sources to meet temporary shortages in the operation, maintenance and
replacement fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates.
      (2)   The user charge rate shall be adjusted such that the transferred
monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
   (D)   Of the revenue collected, $7,285 per year, shall be allocated for debt
service retirement, to be apportioned among the users according to the rates
set up and established in §
53.36.
   (E)   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance
(including replacement) of the treatment works.
   (F)   (1)   At least once every two years, the Mayor and City Council shall
review the sewer user charge system in order to maintain its adequacy to pay
the costs of operation and maintenance including the replacement and the
proportionality of charges among the users and user classes.
      (2)   Any excess revenues collected from a class of users shall be
credited to that class for the next year and its rates will be adjusted
accordingly.
(`77 Code, § 3-210) (Am. Ord. 438, passed 8-3-87)
§ 53.38 BASIS FOR COSTS.
   The rates established are based on the current number of users and future
cost estimates, the terms of which are incorporated herein and made a part
hereof by this reference.
(`77 Code, § 3-210) (Am. Ord. 438, passed 8-3-87)
§ 53.39 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the power, by resolution, to establish
fair and reasonable special assessments to the sewer users of the city to apply
only in special cases which are not covered by §
53.36.
(`77 Code, § 3-210) (Am. Ord. 438, passed 8-3-87)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   HIKE AND BIKE TRAIL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Emergency regulations
   
70.03   Police enforcement
   
70.04   Refusal to obey
   
70.05   Traffic officers
   
70.06   Traffic citations; form and records
   
70.07   Traffic citations; disposition
   
70.08   Traffic citations; illegal cancellation
   
70.09   Registration; operator and vehicles and vehicle license
   
70.10   Equipment and maintenance
   
70.11   Signs and traffic-control devices; damage
   
70.12   All-terrain vehicles; utility-type vehicles
   
70.13   Golf car/cart vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Motor vehicle and highway offenses, see §§
133.40 through
133.43
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of peace officers, see Neb. RS 60-683
   Powers and duties of State Patrol, Neb. RS 81-2005
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The words and phrases used in this title, pertaining to motor vehicles
and traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended.
   (B)   If not defined in the designated statutes, the word or phrase shall
have its common meaning.
(Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676) (`77 Code, § 5-101) (Am. Ord. 1994-O-018,
passed 8-1-94)
§ 70.02 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(`77 Code, § 5-308)
§ 70.03 POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties, with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience the movement of pedestrian and animal and vehicular traffic of
every kind in streets, in parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle
shall stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(`77 Code, § 5-309)
§ 70.04 REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(`77 Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   The City Council or the Municipal Police Department may, at any time,
detail officers, to be known as "traffic officers," at street intersections.
All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control
traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty
to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or
signal device, which may have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM AND RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall provide, in appropriate
form, traffic citations containing notices to appear. The Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall be responsible for the issuance of such books and shall
maintain a record of every such book, and each citation number therein issued
to the Municipal Police Department. The Clerk/Treasurer shall require and
retain a receipt for every book so issued.
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall require the return of all
copies of every traffic citation which has been spoiled, or upon which any
entry has been made and not issued to an alleged violator.
   (B)   All records of traffic citations required herein shall be audited at
least biennially by a member of the City Council.
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The Municipal Police Department, upon issuing a traffic citation to an
alleged violator of any provision of this code, shall deposit a copy of the
traffic citation with the Municipal Attorney unless the citation is just a
warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Municipal Attorney,
such citation may be disposed of only by trial in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction, or other official action by the judge of the court, including a
forfeiture of bail, or by the deposit of sufficient bail with or payment of a
fine to the court by the person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the Municipal Police Department to dispose of
a traffic citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the
same in a manner other than as required herein.
(`77 Code, § 5-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Citations authorized, see Neb. RS 29-422
   Citation contents; procedure, see Neb. RS 29-424
§ 70.08 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; ILLEGAL CANCELLATION.
   Any person who cancels or solicits the cancellation of any traffic citation
in any manner, other than as provided in this chapter, shall be guilty of an
offense.
(`77 Code, § 5-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLES AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street,
alley, or public highway within the municipality without having first
registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3 and Neb.
RS 60-321, except as provided in this section. A person may operate a motor
vehicle without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date
of purchase.
      (2)   Upon registration, such vehicle shall have the required number
plates displayed upon the vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb.
RS 60-323.
      (3)   If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a
violation of this section and the owner properly registers and licenses the
vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or
operator provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within
ten days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense
cited shall occur.
      (4)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator°s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon
any street, alley, or public highway during the period that his or her
operator's license has been revoked or canceled.
(Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-320.01, 60-321, 60-323, 60-4,186) (`77 Code, § 5-
103) (Ord. 1992-O-006, passed 4-6-92)
   (B)   No trailer, semitrailer, or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked
on any street, alley, or public highway within the municipality without having
first registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3 and
Neb. RS 60-321, except as provided in this section. A person may pull such
trailer, semitrailer, or cabin trailer without registration for a period not to
exceed 30 days from the date of purchase. Upon registration, such trailer,
semitrailer, or cabin trailer shall have the required number plate displayed
upon the trailer as provided for by Neb. RS 60-311. If a citation is issued to
an owner or operator of a vehicle for a violation of this section and the owner
properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in compliance and pays all
taxes and fees due and the owner or operator provides proof of such
registration to the prosecuting attorney within ten days after the issuance of
the citation, no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
(Neb. RS 60-302, 60-320, 60-321) (`77 Code, § 5-104) (Am. Ord. 1994-O-019,
passed 8-1-94; Am. Ord. 1996-O-005, passed 2-5-96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10 EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys, or
highways of the municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate
to control the movement of, to stop, and to hold such vehicle, including two
separate means of applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a
good and sufficient horn in good working order, or other efficient signal
devices.
      (2)   From sunset to sunrise, and any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the
street, alley, or highway at a distance of 500 feet, every motor vehicle shall
be equipped with lighted headlights, and every motor vehicle and trailer shall
be equipped with one or more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or
trailer, exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the rear of such vehicle.
      (3)   No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an
electric light or lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or
crosswalks within the municipality. Every motor vehicle having a width of 80
inches or more shall display clearance lights as required by state law.
      (4)   All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good working order;
provided, motorcycles need only be equipped with one brake. All horns on motor
vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions
from a distance of not less than 200 feet; provided, no vehicle, except as
herein provided, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle, any siren, or horn otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor shall any
person use any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to make any unnecessary,
loud, or harsh sound; and provided further that, every Police and Fire
Department vehicle, ambulance, or other authorized emergency vehicle used for
emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren, or whistle of the type
approved by the governing body.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-6,244, 60-6,285) (`77 Code,
§ 5-111) (Ord. 1995-O-002, passed 1-9-95; Am. Ord. 1996-O-007, passed - -)
   (B)   No person shall operate a motorcycle upon the streets. alleys, or
highways within the municipality from sunset to sunrise unless the same is
equipped with at least one and not more than two headlights and a taillight
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear
of such motorcycle. The headlights shall comply with the requirements and
limitations set forth in the Nebraska Rules of the Road.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219) (Ord. 1995-O-003, passed 1-9-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 SIGNS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; DAMAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic-control device, or traffic-control surveillance device.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119, 60-6,130) (`77 Code, § 5-208) (Ord. 475, passed 3-5-90)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.12 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is not 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on three or more low pressure tires;
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
         (e)   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
         (f)   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
      STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to use of the public order for purposes of vehicular
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.   
         (a)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
            1.   Is not less than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width;
            2.   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
            3.   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than
2,200 pounds;
            4.   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
            5.   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
         (b)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include golf carts or iow-speed
vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,355)
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle may be operated on the
streets and highways within the corporate limits of city only if the operator
and vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle may be operated on the
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city only if such
vehicle is equipped with headlights, taillights, brake lights, an OEM muffler,
and a federally approved bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five
feet above ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag
shall be triangular shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and
shall be day glow in color.
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle as authorized in division (B) above shall have:
         (a)   A valid class O operator's license; and
         (b)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or
shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any police officer requesting
such proof within five days of such a request.
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated,
without complying with divisions (C) and (D)(1) above, on streets and highways
in parades which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska or any
department, board, commission, or political subdivision of the state.
      (3)   All-terrain vehicles or utility-type vehicles shall not be operated
on any controlled -access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted.
      (4)   The crossing of a street or highway shall be permitted by an all-
terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle, without complying divisions (C) and
(D)(1) above, only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle proximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at the
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
         (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on at the
time the crossing is made. (Neb. RS 60-6,356)
   (E)   No person shall:
      (1)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle with a cutout, bypass, or similar device;
      (2)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with an
exhaust system so modified; or
      (3)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with the
spark arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-course competition
events.
   (F)   Registration.  
      (1)   In order to be authorized for operation on the streets and highways
of the city, an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle must be registered
in the office of the City Clerk. A registration sticker will be issued upon
submitting proof the following:
         (a)   A certificate from a city police officer indicating that the
all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle has been inspected and complies, in
full, with the equipment requirements identified in division (C) above.
         (b)   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle while operating such vehicle on a street or
highway.
         (c)   A $15 annual fee for registration of the vehicle. A $25 annual
fee shall be required of dealers of all-terrain vehicles or utility-type
vehicle within the city. All such fees shall be credited to the Police
Department Fund of the city. The registration sticker will entitle the all-
terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle to be operated on the streets and
highways of the city from January 1 in any year to December 31 the following
year and shall be renewable annually. The annual fee shall not be prorated. A
registration sticker shall be displayed on the left lower corner of the
windshield of such vehicle, or if the vehicle is not equipped with a windshield
at the left front of such vehicle.
      (2)   Upon compliance with the registration requirements identified
herein, the City Clerk shall issue a registration sticker for the all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle being registered. Said registration sticker
must be prominently displayed upon said vehicle at all times while such vehicle
is in operation on the streets and highways of the city.
   (G)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle as
authorized by this section shall be at least 20 years old and shall possess a
valid driver's license issued by the State of Nebraska or another state. The
individual operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall
provide proof of insurance coverage as required elsewhere in this section to
any police officer requesting such proof within five days of the request being
made. No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle on
the streets or highways of the city, in violation of the Nebraska rules of the
road as established by the Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (H)   Work permit. 
      (1)   The city may issue a work permit to an operator that otherwise
complies with all the terms of this section with the exception of age. A work
permit shall be issued by the City Clerk, upon receipt of the following:
         (a)   Application signed by the applicant, who is at least 16 years of
age as of the date thereof, and the parent or legal guardian of the applicant.
The applicant will acknowledge receipt of a copy of this section and
certification of the applicant and parent/guardian that the applicant will
fully comply with all provisions thereof.
         (b)   Upon issuance of a work permit, the holder thereof may operate
an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle for legitimate employment
purposes (snow removal, lawn care or agricultural use), and in addition, holder
may operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle to or from the site
where the operator is engaged in such employment and the residence of the
operator, over the most direct and accessible route through the streets of the
city.
      (2)   The holder of the work permit shall not use any type of interactive
wireless communication device while operating an all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle on the streets of the city.
   (I)   Local requirement.
      (1)   Any operation of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
within the city limits shall, in addition to the requirements above, obey all
municipal traffic ordinances and regulations, including, but not limited to,
posted speed limits and stop signs; and
      (2)   Any operator who is 20 years or younger must wear a D.O.T.
certified motorcycle helmet at all times.
   (J)   (1)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle may be operated
only between the hours of sunrise and sunset, unless equipped with operable
snow plow blade and apparatus, and shall not be operated at a speed in excess
of the posted speed limit and in no event in excess of 30 mph.
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated
inside the corporate limits of the city by electric utility personnel within
the course of their employment in accordance with the operation requirements,
with the exception that the operation of such vehicle need not be limited to
the hours between sunrise and sunset.
   (K)   A person who is found to be in violation of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a minimum fine of $100 and up to a
maximum fine of $300 for each separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-O-004, passed 4-5-10; Am. Ord. 2011-O-001, passed 1-3-11)
§ 70.13 GOLF CAR/CART VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GOLF CAR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 miles per hour, has a maximum payload
capacity of 1,200 pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds,
has a maximum passenger capacity of not more than four persons, and is designed
and manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational
purposes.
(Neb. RS 60-119.01)
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to use of the public order for purposes of vehicular
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   (B)   A golf car/cart vehicle may be operated on the streets and highways
within the corporate limits of the City of Ravenna, Nebraska only if the
operator and vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Operation.
      (1)   Any person operating a golf car/cart vehicle as authorized in
division (B) above shall have:
         (a)   A valid class O operator's license; and
         (b)   Liability insurance coverage for the golf car/cart vehicle while
operating the golf car/cart vehicle on a street or highway. The person
operating the golf car/cart vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance
coverage to any police officer requesting such proof within five days of such a
request.
      (2)   Golf car/cart vehicles may be operated without complying with
division (C)(1) above on streets and highways in parades which have been
authorized by the State of Nebraska or any department, board, commission, or
political subdivision of the state.
      (3)   Golf car/cart vehicles shall not be operated on any controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted.
      (4)   The crossing of a street or highway shall be permitted by a golf
car/cart vehicle, without complying with division (C)(1) above, only if:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
         (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic
that constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
         (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is only made at the
intersection of such highway with another highway.
   (D)   Registration.
      (1)   In order to be authorized for operation on the streets and highways
of the city, a golf car/cart vehicle must be registered in the Office of the
City Clerk. A registration sticker will be issued upon submitting proof of the
following:
         (a)   A certificate from a Ravenna city police officer indicating that
the golf car/cart vehicle has been inspected and complies, in full, with the
equipment requirements identified in this section;
         (b)   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the golf car/cart
vehicle while operating such vehicle on a street or highway; and
         (c)   A $15 annual fee for registration of the vehicle. All such fees
shall be credited to the Police Department Fund of the city. The registration
sticker will entitle the golf car/cart vehicle to be operated on the streets
and highways of the city from January 1 in any year to December 31 the
following year and shall be renewable annually. The annual fee shall not be
prorated. A registration sticker shall be displayed on the left lower corner of
the windshield of such vehicle, or if the vehicle is not equipped with a
windshield, at the left front of such vehicle.
      (2)   Upon compliance with the registration requirements identified
herein, the City Clerk shall issue a registration sticker for the golf car/cart
vehicle being registered. Said registration sticker must be prominently
displayed upon said vehicle at all times while such vehicle is in operation on
the streets and highways of the city.
   (E)   Any person operating a golf car/cart vehicle as authorized by this
section shall be at least 20 years old and shall possess a valid driver's
license issued by the State of Nebraska or another state. The individual
operating the golf car/cart vehicle shall provide proof of insurance coverage
as required elsewhere in this section to any police officer requesting such
proof within five days of the request being made. No person shall operate a
golf car/cart vehicle on the streets and highways of the city in violation of
the Nebraska rules of the road, as established by the Revised Statutes of the
State of Nebraska.
   (F)   Local requirement.
      (1)   Any operation of a golf car/cart vehicle within the city limits
shall, in addition to the requirements above, obey all municipal traffic
ordinances and regulations, including, but not limited to, posted speed limits
and stop signs; and
      (2)   A golf car/cart vehicle may be operated only between the hours of
sunrise and sunset.
   (G)   Penalty. A person who is found to be in violation of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a minimum fine of $100 and up to
a maximum fine of $300 for each separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-O-011, passed 7-1-19)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Truck routes
   
71.02   One-way traffic
   
71.03   Traffic lanes; designation
   
71.04   Arterial streets; designation
   
71.05   Crosswalks
   
71.06   Signs; signals
   
71.07   Stop signs
   
71.08   School crossing zones; designation
   
71.09   Right-of-way
   
71.10   Child passenger restraint systems
   
71.11   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
71.12   Bicycles; operation
   
71.13   Motorcycles
   
71.14   Engine braking
Speed Limits
   
71.25   General speed limit
   
71.26   Near schools
   
71.27   Alteration for specific streets
   
71.28   Alleys
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of highways by local authorities, see Neb. RS 60-680
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the municipality.
   (B)   The City Council shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect signs
indicating the streets so designated as truck routes.
(`77 Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Truck routes authorized, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for one-way travel on any
street or alley located in the municipality and shall provide for appropriate
signs and markings when such streets have been so designated by resolution.
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable.
(`77 Code, § 5-202)
§ 71.04 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated.
(`77 Code, § 5-203)
Statutory reference:
   Arterial streets, Neb. RS 60-680
§ 71.05 CROSSWALKS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, establish and maintain by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street crosswalks at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such
other places as it may deem necessary.
(`77 Code, § 5-205)
§ 71.06 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating or
prohibiting traffic thereon.
   (B)   Such resolution shall describe the portion of the street or alley
wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited, the regulation or
prohibition, the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed, and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition.
(`77 Code, § 5-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obedience to, placement of, and authority over traffic-control devices, see
Neb. RS 60-6,119
    through 60-6,121
§ 71.07 STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop
sign erected in accordance with a resolution authorized by this chapter (or
adopted pursuant to §
71.05), cause such vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or
crossing any street, highway, or railroad crossing.
   (B)   The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop line, or, if there is
no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if neither is indicated, then
as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting roadway as possible.
(`77 Code, § 5-207)
§ 71.08 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (B)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a motor
vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides fines
for violation of that prohibition.
   (C)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate to the public any area
of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the use
of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the City Council in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01) (`77 Code, § 5-109) (Ord. 1994-O-023, passed 9-12-94)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a Municipal
Policeman stationed at the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the
right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is
within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
   (C)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-
way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked crosswalk,
or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement
of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
      (2)   Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building,
private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
approaching on any sidewalk.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private
road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such
streets.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield the right-of-way to
authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated upon official
business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60-6, 146 through 60-6, 154) (`77 Code, § 5-209) (Ord. 1994-O-021,
passed 8-1-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required to
have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
      (1)   All children up to six years of age being transported in such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on July 20, 2002, and which is
correctly installed in such vehicle; and
      (2)   All children six years of age and less than sixteen years of age
being transported in such vehicle use an occupant protection system. This
division (A) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is equipped with an
occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with restraint systems
pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as such standard existed
on July 20, 2002, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles, and any motor vehicle
designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or earlier which is not
equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (B)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child's weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (A) shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (A) when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267)
   (D)   (1)   The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than
one child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (A),
shall not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (A)(2) shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged
with a violation of some other offense.
(Neb. RS 60-6,268) (`77 Code, § 5-314) (Ord. 404, passed 12-2-85; Am. Ord.
1991-O-004, passed 2-4-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis, or
toy vehicle shall attach himself, herself or the bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, sled, skis, or toy vehicle to any vehicle upon a roadway, and it shall
be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding
upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis, or toy vehicle to cling
or attach himself, herself or the bicycle to such vehicle driven and operated
by him or her.
(Neb. RS 60-6,316) (`77 Code, § 5-315) (Ord. 1994-O-020, passed 8-1-94)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 BICYCLES; OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front
of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
   (C)   Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
   (E)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file, except on parts of streets or highways set aside
for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than
the normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable, except when:
         (a)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in
the same direction;
         (b)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at
an intersection;
         (c)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals, or surface hazards;
         (d)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for
a bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane; or
         (e)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
      (2)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction
of movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to
the left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on the sidewalk.
   (H)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the business
district.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, 60-6,318) (`77 Code, § 5-316) (Ord. 1994-O-027,
passed 9-12-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped
on any highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type
and design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce injuries to
the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to protect the user
by remaining on the user's head, deflecting blows, resisting penetration, and
spreading the force of impact.
   (C)   Each such helmet shall consist of lining, padding, and chin strap and
shall meet or exceed the standards established in the United States Department
of Transportation's Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 CFR
571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282) (`77 Code, § 5-317) (Ord. 1995-O-004,
passed 1-9-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.14 ENGINE BRAKING.
   (A)   It shall be and hereby is determined unlawful for any person in any
part of the city, except as provided in division (B) below, to make or cause to
be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical device operated by
compressed air and used for the purpose of assisting braking on any semi-
tractor. Proper notice shall be posted by the city notifying the public of such
prohibition.
   (B)   Engine braking shall be permitted when traveling south on Highway 68A
north of the city limits to the islands and when traveling north on Highway 68A
from the top of the viaduct to the bottom of the viaduct. These exceptions are
permitted for safety reasons.
(Ord. 2011-O-006, passed 5-2-11)
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.25 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on any of the
following streets or portions of streets in excess of the indicated speed
limit:
 
Street                           Extent                             Speed (mph)
                                 Grand Ave. (N-68) from the
Nebraska Highway 68 (Grand Ave.) junction with N-2 to a point 420   40
                                 feet north of the Mud Creek bridge
                                 Grand Ave. (N-68) from the point
                                 420 feet north of the Mud Creek
Nebraska Highway 68 (Grand Ave.) bridge to a point where said       25
                                 Highway N-68 (Grand Ave.)
                                 intersects with the north curb
                                 line of Road 404 and Sherman St.
                                 Grand Ave. (N-68) from a point
                                 where said Highway N-68 (Grand
                                 Ave.) intersects with the north
Nebraska Highway 68 (Grand Ave.) curb line of Road 404 and Sherman  35
                                 St. to a point 340 feet north of
                                 the intersection of Grand Ave. and
                                 North St.
                                 Grand Ave. (N-68) from a point 340
                                 feet north of the intersection of
Nebraska Highway 68 (Grand Ave.) Grand Ave. and North St. to a      45
                                 point 1,110 feet north of the
                                 intersection of Grand Ave. and
                                 North St.
                                 N-2 from a point 1,500 feet west
Nebraska Highway 2               of Ravenna Rd. and Grand Ave. (N-  45
                                 68) to a point 1,500 feet east of
                                 Ravenna Road and Grand Ave. (N-68)
 
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other
place within the corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than the posted
miles per hour within the residential or business district unless a different
rate of speed is specifically permitted by ordinance. Where a different speed
is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
   (C)   In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions.
(`77 Code, §§ 5-105, 5-106) (Ord. 1994-O-023, passed 9-12-94; Am. Ord. 2011-O-
007, passed 5-2-11; Am. Ord. 2021-O-013, passed 9-13-21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Basic speed rule, see Neb. RS 60-6,185
   General speed limits, see Neb. RS 60-6,186
   State, county, and local authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,190
§ 71.26 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour past such premises, and such driver shall stop at all stop
signs located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall be unlawful for
such driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such stop signs are
located at, or near, such school premise.
(`77 Code, § 5-109) (Ord. 1994-O-023, passed 9-12-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.27 ALTERATION FOR SPECIFIC STREETS.
   The Council, in conformance with the laws of the State of Nebraska, is
hereby authorized to alter the maximum rate of speed on any street within the
city, and to so post any such street with appropriate signs indicating the
maximum allowable rate of speed. No person shall drive any vehicle on any
street within the city at a rate of speed in excess of the posted rate.
(`77 Code, § 5-107) (Ord. 1994-O-023, passed 9-12-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.28 ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on or upon or over
any of the alleys located within the city at a rate of speed in excess of ten
miles per hour.
(`77 Code, § 5-110) (Ord. 1994-O-023, passed 9-12-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   [Reserved]
   
72.02   Parallel parking required; exceptions
   
72.03   Designation of type of parking
   
72.04   Areas of prohibited parking
   
72.05   Alleys; restrictions
   
72.06   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
72.07   Fire hydrants and stations
   
72.08   Parking; streets and avenues
   
72.09   Street intersections
   
72.10   Obstructing traffic
   
72.11   Curb parking; painting of curbs
   
72.12   Display or repair
   
72.13   Current registration
   
72.14   Time limit
   
72.15   Snow removal and maintenance; emergencies
   
72.16   Emergency vehicles
   
72.17   Semi-trailer parking in residential districts; exception
Persons with Disabilities
   
72.30   Definitions
   
72.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces and access aisles; display of
permits
   
72.32   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
72.33   Personal permit
   
72.34   Motor vehicle permit
   
72.35   Permit; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
72.36   Period valid; renewal; fee
   
72.37   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
72.38   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
   
72.39   Citation issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.51   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parking, see Neb. RS 60-680
   General provisions on parking, see Neb. RS 60-6,164 through 60-6,168
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 [RESERVED].
§ 72.02 PARALLEL PARKING REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked, shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway in such manner as
to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway
and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so parked and any
other parked vehicles, except where the City Council designates that vehicles
shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front right wheel at the curb or
edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or
pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls. No vehicle shall be
parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is
available for parking.
(`77 Code, § 5-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS "60-6,167
§ 72.03 DESIGNATION OF TYPE OF PARKING.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb.
(`77 Code, § 5-403)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to permit angle parking, see Neb. RS 60-6,167
§ 72.04 AREAS OF PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley,
public way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
(`77 Code, § 5-404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 ALLEYS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
(`77 Code, § 5-405)
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
(`77 Code, § 5-406)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles on an over-all length less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging or loading freight may back to the curb but shall occupy as little
of the street as possible.
(`77 Code, § 5-406)
§ 72.07 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant nor within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station. The
curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such fire hydrant
shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-6, 166) (`77 Code, § 5-407) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.08 PARKING; STREETS AND AVENUES.
   (A)   The term STREET defines the streets which run in an East and West
direction, and the term AVENUE are all those streets which run in a North and
South direction.
   (B)   Parking is allowed on both sides of streets for one block from Grand
Avenue to Milan Avenue and Grand Avenue to Alba Avenue within the Business
District from Syracuse Street to Utica Street.
   (C)   Parking is prohibited on the north side of all streets 36 feet or
greater in width, in which case parking is allowed on both sides of those
streets, except for the following:
      (1)   West Utica - No parking on either side.
      (2)   East Genoa - No parking on the South side from Grand Avenue to the
alley between Grand Avenue and Milan Avenue.
      (3)   East Genoa - No parking on either side from Milan Avenue to the
East city limits.
   (D)   Parking is prohibited on the West side of all avenues except those
avenues 36 feet or greater in width, in which case parking is allowed on both
sides of those avenues, except for the following:
      (1)   Grand Avenue - Parking is prohibited on both sides from Syracuse
Street to the north city limits.
      (2)   Parking is prohibited on either side of Pine Road.
(Ord. 2009-O-001, passed 1-5-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-023, passed 7-6-15; Am. Ord.
2015-O-024, passed 8-3-15)
§ 72.09 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be
parked or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily, to load or
discharge passengers, within 25 feet of the intersection or curb lines or, if
none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines, nor where the
curb lines are painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(`77 Code, § 5-408) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 72.10 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
(`77 Code, § 5-409) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.11 CURB PARKING; PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb,
unless the street has been designated to be a "one-way" street by the City
Council. Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(`77 Code, § 5-410)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter.
No person, firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street or in any
manner set aside or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street,
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of
portions of streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or
limited shall be done only by the municipality through its proper officers, at
the direction of the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 5-411) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.12 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale.
   (B)   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race
the motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of this
municipality, except in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No
person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks,
streets, or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of
working on automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(`77 Code, § 5-412) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.13 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any vehicle without first securing a current registration as
provided by law.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.14 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, entirely prohibit or fix a time
limit for parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or district
designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any vehicle in
any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer than fixed
in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 72
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted.
   (C)   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours after two inches or more of snowfall is unlawful, except
where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(`77 Code, § 5-414, 5-415) (Am. Ord. 2013-O-22, passed 12-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.15 SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE; EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Ravenna, Nebraska, or his or her designed
representative.
(`77 Code, § 5-501)
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor shall find, on the basis of falling snow, sleet, or
freezing rain or on the basis of an official forecast by the U.S. Weather
Bureau of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather conditions will make it
necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on municipal
snow emergency routes be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing and other
purposes, the Mayor may place into effect a parking prohibition on all snow
emergency routes by declaring that emergency conditions exist. In such
declaration of emergency conditions, the Mayor shall state the time that the
emergency shall be in effect and from the time so designated, all parking of
vehicles on snow emergency routes shall be prohibited. While the prohibition is
in effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any
portion of a snow emergency route. Once in effect, the parking prohibition
imposed under this section shall remain in effect until terminated by
declaration of the Mayor. Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit
parking any time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
(`77 Code, § 5-503)
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor shall cause each declaration of a snow emergency made
by him or her, pursuant hereto, to be publicly announced by means of posting a
notice in each of three public places in the municipality, and he or she may
cause such declaration to be further announced in a newspaper of general
circulation when feasible. Each announcement shall describe the action taken by
the Mayor, including the time it became or will become effective, and shall
specify the streets or areas affected. The Mayor shall make or cause to be made
a record of each time and date when any declaration is announced to the public
by issuing an executive order as soon after the declaration of an emergency as
is feasible.
      (2)   Whenever the Mayor shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to a parking prohibition placed in effect pursuant to the
provisions of this section no longer exist, he or she may declare the
prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, effective immediately upon
announcement or at a later specified time.
(`77 Code, § 5-504)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the Mayor shall find, on the basis of accumulated snow,
that conditions make it necessary that parking on residential streets, be
prohibited or restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, he or she may put
into effect a parking prohibition on parts of or on all residential streets by
declaring that parking be prohibited on one side of the residential streets,
designating either the odd or even address numbered side, at his or her
discretion.
      (2)   In such declaration, the Mayor shall state the date and time on
which such parking prohibition shall take effect.
      (3)   The prohibition shall remain in effect until terminated by
announcement of the Mayor who may then declare that there shall be in effect a
parking prohibition on the opposite side of those residential streets
designated above, which prohibition shall remain in effect until terminated by
announcement of the Mayor.
(`77 Code, § 5-505)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever an emergency has been declared, no person operating a
motor vehicle on a snow emergency route shall allow such vehicle to become
stalled or stuck.
      (2)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route
during the declaration of emergency snow conditions shall allow such vehicle to
become stalled because the motor fuel supply is exhausted or the battery has
become inoperative.
(`77 Code, § 5-506)
   (F)   (1)   Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled for any reason on any
snow emergency route on which there is a parking prohibition in effect, the
person operating such vehicle shall take immediate action to have the vehicle
towed or pushed off the roadway of such snow emergency route, either onto the
nearest cross street which is not a snow emergency route, or other appropriate
location.
      (2)   No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway
of a snow emergency route, except for the purpose of securing assistance during
the actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby garage,
gasoline station, or other place of assistance and return without delay.
(`77 Code, § 5-507)
   (G)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or
have removed a vehicle from a street to another place or location on a street
or to a lot, garage, or similar facility designated by the Police Department
when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which a parking
prohibition is in effect; or
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a snow emergency route on which there is
a parking prohibition in effect and the person who is operating the vehicle
does not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this
section; or
      (3)   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law contained in this section and is interfering or
about to interfere with snow removal operations.
(`77 Code, § 5-508)
   (H)   Any provision of this section which becomes effective by declaration
of the Mayor upon the occurrence of a snow emergency, while temporarily in
effect, takes precedence over other conflicting provisions of law normally in
effect, except that it shall not take precedence over provisions of law
relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency
vehicles, or emergency traffic directions by a police officer.
(`77 Code, § 5-509) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate during snow emergencies, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 72.16 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this title, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same in
an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of and conditions on authorized emergency vehicles, see Neb. RS
60-6,114
§ 72.17 SEMI-TRAILER PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing upon the
residential streets or alleys of the city any truck, trailer, or semi-trailer,
except for the purpose of loading or unloading. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to trucks or trailers being used in connection with building,
repair, service, or moving operations.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this section the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOADING AND UNLOADING. The act of delivering or collecting goods, wares
merchandise, or materials for a period of time no longer than is necessary for
the expeditious delivery or collecting of goods, wares, merchandise or
materials, however in no event shall this exceed two hours.
      RESIDENTIAL STREET OR ALLEY. Any street, alley, public right-of-way or
public property lying adjacent to property classified by ordinance of the city
for residential purposes.
      SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constricted
that some part of its weight and that of its load rest upon or is carried by
the towing vehicle.
      TRAILER. Includes every vehicle without motor power carrying persons or
property and being pulled by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of
its weight rest upon the towing vehicle.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle having a rated gross vehicle weight of 20,001
pounds or more, equipped or used for the transportation of property.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction, be deemed guilty of an infraction for each day such motor
vehicle remains unlawfully parked and shall be fined in a sum not to exceed
$100 for each offense, and subject to any other penalty as provided by law.
(Ord. 2003-O-022, passed 10-6-03)
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
§ 72.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations
adopted and promulgated in response to the act.
(Neb. RS 18-1736)
   HANDICAPPED or DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating the use of parking spaces, including access aisles,
designated for use by handicapped or disabled persons, the unauthorized
possession, use, or display of handicapped or disabled parking permits, or the
obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in accordance and in
conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01)
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED or DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 18-1738)
(`77 Code, § 5-413.02)
§ 72.31 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF
PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of handicapped or disabled persons whose motor
vehicles display the distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or
disabled persons pursuant to Neb. RS 60-311.14, handicapped or disabled persons
whose motor vehicles display a distinguishing license plate issued to a
handicapped or disabled person by another state, such other handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, as certified
by the municipality, whose motor vehicles display the permit specified in Neb.
RS 18-1739, and such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality,
which display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle's rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield.
      (3)   The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the City Council so designates a parking space or access aisle, it
shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(Neb. RS 18-1736) (`77 Code, § 5-413)
§ 72.32 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   The municipality and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in
such facility owned or operated by the municipality or person for the exclusive
use of handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-311.14, such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739, and such other motor
vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which display such permit. Such
designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to
and visible from each stall or space, including access aisles, a sign which is
in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (`77 Code, § 5-413.01)
§ 72.33 PERSONAL PERMIT.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall take an application, on a form
provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled
person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent,
legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder
thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting
such holder to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for by this
subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle
while it is parked in such spaces or access aisles. For purposes of this
section, the handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.34, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall submit to the Department of
Motor Vehicles the name, address, and license number of all persons applying
for a permit pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
(Neb. RS 18-1738)
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS
18-1738.02.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.02) (`77 Code, § 5-413.03)
§ 72.34 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall take an application from any
person for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a
person driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in
those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor
vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit
shall be used only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used
for the transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily
handicapped or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor
vehicle while it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer that each such motor vehicle is used primarily
for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall
be given to each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.33, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall submit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a
permit pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.01)
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall not accept the application for a
permit of any person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Neb. RS 18-1738.02)
(`77 Code, § 5-413.04)
§ 72.35 PERMIT; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.37. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in the
manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the
same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form
need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the
most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate
permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which the original
permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 18-1739) (`77 Code, § 5-413.05) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 72.36 PERIOD VOID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   All permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending on September
30 of the third year after the date of issuance and shall expire on that date.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Neb. RS 18-1740) (`77 Code, § 5-413.06)
§ 72.37 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped parking
infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six
months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of this subchapter.
In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than $250 which
may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all handicapped
parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are returned to
the court. At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may
be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this Article.
(Neb. RS 18-1741) (`77 Code, § 5-413.07) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 72.38 REMOVAL OF AUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the municipality, if it
provides on-street parking or owns, operates, or provides an off-street parking
facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access
aisles, designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted
aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space,
including access aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area
so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   (1)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or
access aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for
the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space or access aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly
displaying the proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom
or for whom, as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not
enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access
aisle shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject
to the penalties and procedures set forth in §
72.39.
      (2)   The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction.
      (3)   If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in violation
of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalties and procedures
described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737) (`77 Code, § 5-413.08)
§ 72.39 CITATION ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the City Council to exercise the authority to
issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01(2))
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction, or such person
shall be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01, the complaint
shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of
the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit provided for
in Neb. RS 18-1741.03, signed by a peace officer, certifying that the recipient
is the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped parking permit
issued under Neb. RS 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 and that the peace officer has
personally viewed the permit.
   (E)   A person cited for a handicapped parking violation may waive his or
her right to trial.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.04)
   (F)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.06)
(`77 Code, § 5-413.09)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.51 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or
alley in violation of any of the provisions of the chapter, the officer may
remove the vehicle, have such vehicle removed or require the driver or other
person in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the
roadway of such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(`77 Code, § 5-417)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165
CHAPTER 73: HIKE AND BIKE TRAIL REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Trail hours
   
73.03   Animals
   
73.04   Traffic control
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Not under the control of a person either by leash, cord, or chain.
   CITY RECREATION TRAIL or TRAIL. Any city trail constructed for travel and
designated as a city recreation trail by separate resolution of the City
Council.
   MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any motorized conveyance including, but not limited to:
cars, trucks, motorcycles, tractors, farm machinery, four by fours, golf carts,
snowmobiles, minibikes, dune buggies, or ATVs. MOTORIZED VEHICLE shall not
include motorized wheelchairs, electric-assist bicycles, vehicles operated by
city employees who are assigned to work on such trails, or police or fire
vehicles performing official duties.
   NONMOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any nonmotorized conveyance, including: bicycles,
unicycles, roller blades, roller skis, wheelchairs, wagons, and bicycle
trailers. NONMOTORIZED VEHICLE shall include motorized wheelchairs and
electric-assist bicycles.
(Ord. 2020-O-003, passed 4-6-20)
§ 73.02 TRAIL HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or be present upon any trail
during any hours during which said trail is not open to the public. Except for
city recreation trails located within a street right-of-way, the city
recreation trails shall be closed to the public from 10:30 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
from November 1 through March 31 and from 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. from April 1
through October 31; provided that such trails may be closed during other times
by order of the Mayor when necessary for the care and maintenance of a trail,
the health, safety, and welfare of the public, or the protection or
preservation of trail property.
(Ord. 2020-O-003, passed 4-6-20)
§ 73.03 ANIMALS.
   Pets shall be permitted on city recreation trails. It shall be unlawful for
any person to allow or permit any dog or other pet to run at large upon any
trail. Such pets shall not be permitted to deprive or disrupt the enjoyment or
use of any trail by another person. Pet owners are responsible for cleaning up
any droppings left by their pet on any trail.
(Ord. 2020-O-003, passed 4-6-20)
§ 73.04 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Trail signs shall be obeyed by all trail users.
   (B)   When on a trail, all trail users must stay on the right half of the
trail when meeting or being passed by another trail user. Roller skiers who use
poles must have a protective tip on the pole that will not penetrate the trail
surface.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or operate any motorized
vehicle upon a trail. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
nonmotorized vehicle upon a trail carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the
rights of others, or in a manner that endangers or is likely to endanger any
property or any person, including the driver.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of division (C) above
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed $500 and in a sum not less than $100.
(Ord. 2020-O-003, passed 4-6-20)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
94.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
95.   ANIMALS
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
      
97.   WATER WELLS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
   
90.03   Park hours
Swimming Pools
   
90.20   Operation and funding
   
90.21   Admission charge
   
90.22   Rentals
   
90.23   Rules and regulations
Library
   
90.40   Operation and funding
   
90.41   Library Board; powers and duties
   
90.42   Grounds and building
   
90.43   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
90.44   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.45   Cost of use
   
90.46   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.47   Annual report
   
90.48   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.49   Donations
   
90.50   Improper book removal
Auditorium
   
90.60   Ownership
   
90.61   Rentals
   
90.62   Rules and regulations
   
90.63   Rental fees
PARKS
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal parks and other
recreational areas through the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management, and maintenance of the municipal park, may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the taxable value of all
taxable property within the corporate limits. The revenue from the tax shall be
known as the park fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer. The City Council shall have the authority to adopt rules and
regulations for the efficient management of the municipal parks and other
recreational areas of the municipality. The City Council shall not enter into a
contract of any nature which involves an expenditure of funds, except for
ordinary operating expenses, unless the contract has been approved by
resolution of the majority of the members of the City Council prior to the
contractual agreement.
(`77 Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Recreation centers and areas generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person maliciously or willfully to cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area or injure or destroy any
building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property of
the municipal parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste on
or litter the municipal parks or other public grounds.
(`77 Code, § 3-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.03 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to remain in city parks between the hours of 12
a.m. and 5 a.m. except in the case of a special or organized event where
permission has been received in advance and except for events, which, because
of delays or extended playing periods, exceed these limits.
   (B)   Any person found in violation as hereinbefore defined shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2003-O-014, passed 5-12-03)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 90.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The
City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
maintenance, and improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not
exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the taxable value of all
taxable property within the municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be
known as the swimming pool fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool.
   (B)   The swimming pool fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   The Park Board shall manage the swimming pool. The Park Board shall
have the power and authority to hire and supervise and such employees as he or
she may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and regulations for the
operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Park Board shall be under the supervision and control of the
Mayor and City Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Recreation centers and areas generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-952
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
§ 90.21 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The City Council may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the municipal swimming
pool. The charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal
swimming pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes
of persons in a reasonable manner, provided that nothing in this section shall
be construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, sex,
religion, color, national origin, or ancestry in the classification of persons
for admission charges.
(`77 Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to charge fees and prescribe regulations, see Neb. RS 17-949
   Discrimination prohibited, see Neb. RS 20-132
§ 90.22 RENTALS.
   The Park Board shall have the authority to rent the municipal swimming pool
to such organizations and other persons as it may in its discretion see fit,
subject to the review of the City Council. The Park Board shall prescribe rules
and regulations for such rentals and shall require an appropriate number of
qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the rental period. Such fees
and other costs shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer
and posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool.
(`77 Code, § 3-603)
§ 90.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Board shall have the power and authority to prescribe bylaws, rules
and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and for the
efficient management thereof. He or she may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such rules and regulations subject to the review and supervision
of the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-604) Penalty, see §
10.99
LIBRARY
§ 90.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal library through the
Library Board.
   (B)   The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
taxable value of all the taxable property within the municipality. The amount
collected from the levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
   (C)   The fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the municipal library.
   (D)   (1)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any
way acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the municipal library
shall be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other
funds of the municipality, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer upon vouchers signed by the President of the Library Board and
authenticated by the Secretary of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed
for any other purpose or in any other manner.
      (2)   The City Council may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (E)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer along with a report of the sources
of the revenue.
(`77 Code, § 3-701)
Cross-reference:
   Library Board, see §
32.01
Statutory reference:
   General provisions on libraries, see Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219
   Library tax included in municipal levy, see Neb. RS 77-3442
§ 90.41 LIBRARY BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   (1)   The Library Board shall have the power to appoint a suitable
librarian and assistants, to fix their compensation, and to remove such
appointees at pleasure.
      (2)   It shall have the power to establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. It shall have the power to fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
(`77 Code, §§ 3-701, 3-703)
§ 90.42 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   (A)   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
   (B)   The Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building for the
use of the library.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.43 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance of any
real estate owned by the Board or by the municipal library, which is not used
for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the Board
or to the library upon such terms as the Board may deem best and as otherwise
provided in Neb. RS 51-216.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.44 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   (A)   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release,
upon full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board.
   (B)   The President and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly
passed and adopted by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.45 COST OF USE.
   (A)    Except as provided in divisions (B) and (D) of this section, the
municipal library and reading room shall be forever free to the use of the
inhabitants of the municipality, subject always to such reasonable regulations
as the Library Board may adopt to render the library of the greatest use to
such inhabitants. The Library Board may exclude from the use of the library and
reading rooms any person who willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules
and regulations established for the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The library shall make its basic services available without charge to
all residents of the municipality. The Library Board may fix and impose
reasonable fees, not to exceed the library's actual cost, for non-basic
services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Basic services shall include, but not be limited to, free loan of
circulating print and non-print materials from the local collection and general
reference and information services; and
      (2)   Non-basic services shall include, but not be limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01) (`77 Code, § 3-706)
   (D)   The Mayor and City Council hereby set the following fees for renting
of the Ravenna Public Library Community Room:
 
                                                   Rental Fee Damage Deposit
Community, civic, non-profit groups: (Donations    No charge  $100
accepted)
Reception, birthday party, shower, and the like    $25        $100
Commercial meeting                                 $25        $100
Prior set up fee (set up the day before the event) Additional $25
 
(Ord. 2018-O-015, passed 9-10-18)
§ 90.46 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 90.47 ANNUAL REPORT.
    The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.48 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney's fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney's
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the
municipality to the credit of the Library Fund. Attorney's fees collected
pursuant to this section shall be placed in the treasury of the municipality
and credited to the budget of the Municipal Attorney's office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.49 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donation of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the municipal library. The title to property so donated may be made
to and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
municipal library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.50 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book or any other material from the library,
without the consent of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library.
Any person removing a book or other material from the library without properly
checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(`77 Code, § 3-705) Penalty, see §
10.99 
AUDITORIUM
§ 90.60 OWNERSHIP.
    The municipality owns and manages the municipal auditorium through the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the management, maintenance, and improvements on the municipal
auditorium, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law on the taxable value of all taxable property within the
municipality. The revenue from the tax shall be known as the auditorium fund
and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the municipal auditorium. The auditorium fund shall at
all times be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
(`77 Code, § 3-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Auditoriums and similar facilities, see Neb. RS 17-953 through 17-955
   Issuance of bonds, see Neb. RS 17-954
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 17-955 and 77-3442
§ 90.61 RENTALS.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the auditorium,
make a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of
the auditorium. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall prescribe rules and
regulations for such rentals subject to the review of the City Council. Rental
rates may be structured for classes of persons and organizations in a
reasonable manner, provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to
permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, religion,
national origin, or ancestry in the classification of persons and organizations
for rental purposes.
Statutory reference:
   Discrimination prohibited, see Neb. RS 20-132
   Operation of facility, see Neb. RS 17-953
§ 90.62 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall have the power and authority to
prescribe rules and regulations for the protection of the municipal auditorium
and the safety of those using the auditorium facilities. It may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such rules and regulations subject to
the supervision and review of the City Council. All damage suffered by the
auditorium during any rental shall be assessed against the person or
organization responsible for the rental thereof or shall be deducted from the
damage deposit which the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer may in his or her discretion
have required prior to the rental. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer may require
during any rental deputized persons to insure that the rules and regulations
and the municipal code are not violated. The wages of such persons shall be set
by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and shall be paid prior to the beginning of
the rental period. All rental fees, rules, and regulations shall be on file for
public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer at any
reasonable time.
(`77 Code, § 3-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-953
§ 90.63 RENTAL FEES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council set the following fee(s) for rental of the
Ravenna City Auditorium. Community, civic, non-profit groups: No charge
(donations accepted).
Base Rental Fees
 Rent Damage Deposit Tables
Base Rental Fees
                              Rent                    Damage Deposit Tables
Reception with dance          $300                    $300           $100
Reception without dance       $100                    $100           $50
Rehearsal dinner, reunion,
anniversary or large birthday $100                    $100           $50
parties
Commercial meetings           $100                    $100           $50
Auctions                      $300                    $300           $150
2-hour function               $35                     $50            $20
4-hour function               $50                     $50            $25
Daily setup before event      $50
Skating parties               $50 paid to Lion's Club
 
   (B)   The rental agreement, which includes the Rules and Regulations, is
hereby approved and amended and a copy of the rental agreement is attached to
Ordinance 2012-O-020 and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Any future base rental fees may be changed by resolution.
(Ord. 2012-O-020, passed 11-5-12)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Operation and funding
   
91.02   Sexton
   
91.03   Conveyance of lots
   
91.04   Forfeiture of lots
   
91.05   Lot transfers
   
91.06   Perpetual care
   
91.07   Burial permit
   
91.08   Burial of indigents
   
91.09   Lot curbing
   
91.10   Shrubs and trees
   
91.11   Monuments
   
91.12   Grave depth
   
91.13   Destruction of property
   
91.14   Reclamation
   
91.15   Fees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the municipal cemetery through the
Cemetery Board. The City Council, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, maintenance, and beautification of the cemetery may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all taxable property within the municipality that is subject
to taxation for general purposes. The revenue from the tax shall be known as
the cemetery fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, money, stocks, bonds, or other valuable income-producing personal
property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the
cemetery. The cemetery fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-801)
Statutory reference:
   Cemetery board; taxing authority, see Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 12-402, 17-928 and 77-3442
§ 91.02 SEXTON.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall
have the authority to appoint a Sexton who shall perform such duties and make
such reports as the Cemetery Board shall direct, and to employ such labor and
assistants as the Cemetery Board may deem necessary from persons not belonging
to the Board. It shall be the duty of the Sexton, upon receiving a burial
permit, to locate and direct the party named in the permit to the lot mentioned
therein and to dig and excavate or cause the same to be dug or excavated, in
compliance with the rules and regulations of the Cemetery Board.
   (B)   The Cemetery Sexton shall receive compensation for his/her services
and said compensation shall be payable on the same bi-monthly schedule as all
other city employees. Compensation shall be $400 for full grave opening and
$100 for cremation/child grave opening and such rate of compensation can be
amended by resolution.
(`77 Code, § 3-802) (Am. Ord. 2013-O-020, passed 10-7-13)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to contract, see Neb. RS 12-403
§ 91.03 CONVEYANCE OF LOTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may convey cemetery lots by certificate
signed by the Mayor, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer under
the municipal seal, specifying that the person to whom the same is issued is
the owner of the lot described therein by number for the purpose of interment.
   (B)   The certificate shall give a right in fee simple to the proprietor,
his or her heirs, and assigns. The certificate shall then be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds.
(`77 Code, § 3-803)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-941
§ 91.04 FORFEITURE OF LOTS.
   (A)   If, for three consecutive years, all charges and liens are not paid by
the holders of the lot certificates, the certificates shall be declared
forfeited and subject to resale.
   (B)   All certificates sold shall contain a forfeiture clause to the effect
that if no interment is made on the lot and all liens paid, the certificate and
the rights under the same may, at the option of the Cemetery Board, with the
sanction of the City Council, be declared null and void and the lot shall be
subject to resale.
(`77 Code, § 3-804)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-938
§ 91.05 LOT TRANSFERS.
   Any person who wishes to transfer a certificate may do so by surrendering
the original certificate to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, who shall issue a
new certificate upon the receipt of the recording fee set by resolution of the
City Council.
(`77 Code, § 3-805)
§ 91.06 PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall allocate and set apart a
percentage of the entire amount paid for lots or burial spaces if the lots or
burial spaces are to be endowed with perpetual care.
   (B)   The fund shall be permanent in nature, and as it accumulates shall be
invested in such interest bearing securities as are authorized by state law.
The income earned thereon shall be used solely for the purposes of perpetual
care for the cemetery lots. Any lot owner who shall not have, prior to the
purchase of his or her lot, endowed his holdings with perpetual care, may do so
by paying to the Secretary of the Cemetery Board such sum of money as the City
Council may in each case fix and determine. Thereafter, the owner shall not be
liable for the payment of an annual maintenance assessment.
(`77 Code, § 3-806)
§ 91.07 BURIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons desiring to bury a deceased person shall first be required
to file a completed death certificate with the Bureau of Vital Statistics
before any body may be buried in the municipal cemetery.
   (B)   If it is impossible to complete the certificate of death within the
legal period of time prescribed by state law, the funeral director shall notify
the Bureau of the reason for the delay and file the certificate as soon as
possible. The burial permit so issued by the Bureau shall then be filed with
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the sexton or other person to allow the
interment of a body without first receiving such permit. The burial permit
shall then be countersigned and dated by the sexton.
      (2)   The interment of any body shall be performed under the direct
supervision of a licensed funeral director. The applicant shall also file with
the burial permit an application containing the name, age, sex, race, and cause
of death of the deceased person for the records of the Cemetery Board.
      (3)   Upon completion of the requirements herein, the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall then issue a municipal burial permit which shall entitle the
applicant to bury a deceased person in the municipal cemetery.
   (D)   In the event that the removal of the body of any deceased person is
requested, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall issue no permit until the
applicant shall have first complied with the laws of the State of Nebraska with
respect to such disinterment.
(`77 Code, § 3-807)
Statutory reference:
   Death certificate general requirements, see Neb. RS 71-605
§ 91.08 BURIAL OF INDIGENTS.
   Within the municipal cemetery, there shall be included a plot of ground
which shall be available for the free burial of indigents and unknown travelers
who may die while they are within the municipality.
(`77 Code, § 3-808)
§ 91.09 LOT CURBING.
   It shall be hereafter unlawful for the owner of any lot to construct,
maintain, or suffer to remain any curbing around any lot or burial space
therein of a height greater than one inch.
(`77 Code, § 3-809) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.10 SHRUBS AND TREES.
   It shall be unlawful, without the written permission of the City Council, to
plant, maintain, or suffer to remain on any cemetery lot a shrub or tree
attaining a height of more than four feet.
(`77 Code, § 3-810) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.11 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Persons desiring to erect monuments, tombstones, or other structures
shall first procure a permit from the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Cemetery Board shall review all such applications and shall give
written approval for any permit prior to the issuance by the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer of the permit.
(`77 Code, § 3-811) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 GRAVE DEPTH.
   Graves shall not be less than six feet deep; provided, nothing herein shall
be construed to prohibit the use of mausoleums or other recognized methods of
interring deceased persons if such a burial procedure is approved by the
Cemetery Board.
§ 91.13 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall willfully destroy, mutilate, deface, injure, or remove
any tomb, monument, or gravestone placed in the cemetery, or any fence,
railing, or other work for the protection or ornamentation of the cemetery, or
who shall willfully destroy, cut, break, or injure any tree, shrub, or plant
shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(`77 Code, § 3-812) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 91.14 RECLAMATION.
   When any lot has been transferred by warranty deed or by a deed conveying a
fee simple title, but there has been no burial in any such lot or subdivision
thereof and no payment of annual assessments for a period of three years, the
Cemetery Board with the sanction of the City Council, may reclaim the unused
portion of such lot or subdivision after notifying the record owner or his or
her heirs or assigns, if known, by certified mail and publishing notice of its
intention to do so. Such notice shall be published once each week for four
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation throughout the county in which the
cemetery is located, shall describe the lot or subdivision proposed to be
reclaimed, and shall be addressed to the person in whose name such portion
stands of record or, if there is no owner of record, to all persons claiming
any interest in such lot or subdivision. If no person appears to claim such lot
or subdivision and pay all delinquent assessments with interest within 15 days
after the last date of such publication, the Cemetery Board may by resolution
reclaim such lot or subdivision. Such reclamation shall be complete upon a
filing of a verified copy of such resolution, together with proof of
publication, in the office of the Register of Deeds.
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on reclamation of lots, see Neb. RS 17-938
§ 91.15 FEES.
   (A)   The following rates or fees shall be collected from the individual(s)
responsible for burial arrangements at the City Cemetery for the following
services:
      (1)   Grave opening                  $650
      (2)   Grave openings for children under the age of two years   $250
      (3)   Cremations                     $250
   (B)   The following rates or fees shall be collected from the individual(s)
purchasing lots at the City Cemetery for the following:
      (1)   One lot   $2,000
      (2)   One-half lot   $1,000
      (3)   One-quarter lot   $500
      (4)   One space   $250
(Ord. 2013-O-007, passed 4-1-13; Am. Ord. 2013-O-013, passed 6-3-13; Am. Ord.
2016-O-002, passed 1-4-16; Am. Ord. 2019-O-002, passed 3-4-2019; Am. Ord. 2023-
O-006, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise specifically provided, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $100. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose penalties, see Neb. RS 17-943
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
Fire Prevention
   
92.01   Life Safety Code
   
92.02   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.03   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.04   Fire limits defined
   
92.05   Fire limits building materials
   
92.06   Removal required
   
92.07   Repair required
   
92.08   Open burning ban; waiver
   
92.09   Fire Department equipment
   
92.10   Driving over fire hose
Poisonous and Flammable Gases; Explosives
   
92.20   Petroleum gas
   
92.21   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
92.22   Bullets
   
92.23   Blasting permit
   
92.24   Transportation
   
92.25   Explosives; storage registration; requirements
Fireworks
   
92.40   Definition
   
92.41   Permitted fireworks
   
92.42   Throwing firecrackers
   
92.43   Sale
Cross-reference:
   Fire Chief, see §
31.11
   Fire Department, see §
32.40 through 32.50
Statutory reference:
   Powers regarding fire prevention, see Neb. RS 17-549 and 19-550
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.01 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this code are the standards recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, known as the Life Safety Code, 1967
edition, and all subsequent amendments. This code shall have the same force and
effect as if set out verbatim herein. One copy of the Life Safety Code is on
file with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt, see Neb. RS 18-132
§ 92.02 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this code and made a part of this chapter as though spread at
large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto. One copy of the
fire prevention code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and
shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt, see Neb. RS 18-132
   Powers and duties of State Fire Marshal, see Neb. RS 81-502
§ 92.03 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 92.04 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: Grand Avenue from Railroad Street to Syracuse
Street; Alba Avenue from Railroad Street to Syracuse Street; Milan Avenue from
Railroad Street to Syracuse Street.
(`77 Code, § 7-201)
§ 92.05 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   Within the fire limits set forth in §
92.04, no structure shall be built, altered, moved, or enlarged unless such
structure will be enclosed with walls constructed wholly of stone, well-burned
brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other such noncombustible materials as will
satisfy the Fire Chief that the structure will be reasonably fireproof.
(`77 Code, § 7-202)
   (B)   All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads which are
constructed of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame
shall be considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any
future construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (`77 Code, § 7-204)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish, or maintain
any lumber yard or place for the piling, storing, keeping, or selling any
lumber, or to keep any lime, lath, shingles, hay, straw, or other combustible
materials on any lot or parcel of ground within said fire limits, unless the
same is securely kept in a building constructed of brick, stone, concrete, or
other noncombustible material; provided, the foregoing shall not apply to
lumber yards now built and in use.
(Neb. RS 17-549) (`77 Code, § 7-205)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 92.06 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Neb. RS 17-550)
§ 92.07 REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged to the
extent of less than 50% of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be
the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant to remove or repair the building in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow a building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any
such building shall be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving
notice to do so by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (`77 Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive an open burning ban
under division (A) of this section for an area under his or her jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his or her designee to a
person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee, and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban
in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief or his
or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open burning ban
has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her intention to
burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and regulations listing
the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under
division (B) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each
such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department.
      (2)   Such funds shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire
Department. No such fee shall be collected from any state or political
subdivision to which such a permit is issued to conduct open burning under
division (B) of this section in the course of such state's or political
subdivision's official duties.
(`77 Code, § 7-208) (Ord. 357, passed 2-7-83; Am. Ord. 1995-O-031, passed 7-3-
95)
Statutory reference:
   Statewide ban; exemptions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
§ 92.09 FIRE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle, or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
(`77 Code, § 6-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief,
or the Assistant Fire Chief to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of
the Fire Department at any time.
(`77 Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES; EXPLOSIVES
§ 92.20 PETROLEUM GAS.
    Any person desiring to store or keep in their possession liquefied
petroleum gas shall place the containers outside of buildings on nonflammable
docks or platforms and no such container shall, at any time, be stored within a
building of any kind. This section shall not apply to the storage of five
gallons or less of gasoline.
(`77 Code, § 7-301) (Neb. RS 17-549) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 92.21 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas or add to, enlarge, or replace any facility used for
the storage of such gases, must first get permission from the City Council. The
City Council shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage, and the
amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the City Council shall
prescribe such rules, regulations, and precautionary actions as they may deem
necessary. Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of
storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the
effective date of the ordinance enacting this section, provided that any such
present use that is discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived
without a permit. The provisions of this section shall be controlling
throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(`77 Code, § 7-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-549
   Authority to regulate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Authority throughout zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 92.22 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells, and percussions caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials, and high explosives.
(`77 Code, § 7-402)
§ 92.23 BLASTING PERMIT.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials within the
municipality shall secure a permit from the City Council and shall discharge
such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the
permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user's permit issued by the Nebraska State Patrol.
(`77 Code, § 7-403)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
   State permit requirements, see Neb. RS 28-1229 et seq.
§ 92.24 TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the municipality shall
first acquire a permit from the municipal police and shall take such
precautions and use such route as they may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to the municipal police, or any of the Armed Services of the
United States. No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled
stop for longer than five minutes within the municipality and in the event of
mechanical failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the
Police Chief, who shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary to
protect the residents of the municipality and a reasonable time for removal of
the vehicle from the municipality.
(`77 Code, § 7-404)
Statutory reference:
   State permit requirements, see Neb. RS 28-1235
§ 92.25 EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department, pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or
flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the municipality shall
register such information with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer 24 hours prior to
such storage. The transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within
the municipality shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to
register the transfer and the new location of the explosives and gases with the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a
new location by the owner shall require registration of the new location with
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. This section shall not apply to the storage of
five gallons or less of gasoline.
   (B)   All high explosives, including dynamite, gunpowder, and nitroglycerine
shall be stored in a proper receptacle which shall be closed at all times,
except when actually in use. Such cement, metal, or stone receptacle shall not
be located in any room where there is a flame or flammable materials. The area
surrounding storage facilities shall be kept clear of rubbish, brush, dry
grass, or trees for not less than 25 feet in all directions. Any other
combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not less than 50 feet from
outdoor storage facilities.
(`77 Code, § 7-401) (Am. Ord. 1994-O-034, passed 11-7-94)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
(Neb. RS 28-1241)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.41 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighths inch in diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed 50
milligrams each in weight, color wheels, and any other fireworks approved under
Neb. RS 28-1247.
(Neb. RS 28-1241(7))
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
City Council or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(`77 Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
   Unlawful fireworks, see Neb. RS 28-1244
   Prohibitions not applicable, see Neb. RS 28-1245
§ 92.42 THROWING FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object; from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any highway; at or near any person; into any building; or into or at any
group of persons. It shall be unlawful for any person to explode any fireworks
after the hour of 10:00 p.m. and before the hour of 8:00 a.m. June 24 through
July 2 and after the hour of 12:00 a.m. and before the hour of 8:00 a.m. July 3
through July 5.
(Am. Ord. 2007-O-023, passed 8-6-07; Am. Ord. 2015-O-020, passed 7-6-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 92.43 SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer for
sale as a distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal. Licensees shall only sell
fireworks which have been approved by the State Fire Marshal, and permissible
fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and July 5 of each year.
(Neb. RS 28-1246, 28-1247, 28-1249) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Health regulations
   
93.02   Enforcement official
   
93.03   County Health Board
Nuisances
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   Abatement procedure
   
93.22   Jurisdiction
   
93.23   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
93.24   Dead or diseased trees
   
93.25   Firewood storage
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
133.06
   Maintaining a nuisance, see §
133.01
   Raising or producing stagnant water, see §
133.07
   Weeds; littering; stagnant water, see §
133.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(`77 Code, § 4-101)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief, as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health
officer of the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to notify the City
Council and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the municipality and
its zoning jurisdiction.
(`77 Code, § 4-102)
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 93.03 COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality.
(`77 Code, § 4-104)
NUISANCES
§ 93.20 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(`77 Code, § 4-301)
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)    Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity, provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards, or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(`77 Code, § 4-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Maintenance of a nuisance, see Neb. RS 28-1321
§ 93.21 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of real estate in the
municipality to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. Upon
determination by the Board of Health that the owner or occupant has failed to
keep such real estate free of public nuisances, notice to abate and remove such
nuisance and notice of the right to a hearing before the City Council and the
manner in which it may be requested shall be given to the owner or occupant, or
the owner's or occupant's duly authorized agent, by personal service or
certified mail. Such notice shall describe the condition as found by the Board
of Health and state that the condition has been declared a public nuisance and
that the condition must be remedied at once. Within ten days after the receipt
of such notice, if the owner or occupant of the real estate does not request a
hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality shall have such work done and may levy and assess the costs and
expenses of the work upon the real estate so benefitted in the same manner as
other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the City
Council, the City Council shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be
held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service or certified
mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before the City Council to
show cause why such condition should not be found to be a public nuisance and
remedied. Such notice shall be given not less than seven, nor more than 14 days
before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the hearing and
pursuant to the notice, the City Council shall hear all objections made by the
owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of Health. If
after consideration of all the evidence, the City Council finds that the
condition is a public nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and direct the
owner or occupant to remedy the public nuisance at once. If the owner or
occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order of the City
Council, the City Council shall proceed to cause the abatement of the described
public nuisance and may levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed.
(`77 Code, § 4-303)
Cross-reference:
   Authority to obtain injunction against nuisance, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Authority to remove garbage from land, see Neb. RS 18-1752
§ 93.22 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and municipal police are directed to enforce this municipal code
against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, municipal police and
court shall extend to and the territorial application of this chapter shall
include all territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one
mile thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(`77 Code, § 4-304)
Statutory reference:
   Zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 17-1001
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, the Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 93.23 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710) (`77 Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 403, passed 10-7-85)
§ 93.24 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the municipality. For the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section, the municipal Police shall have the authority to
enter upon private property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed.
(`77 Code, § 4-307) (Ord. 1995-O-019, passed 6-5-95)
Cross-reference:
   Overhanging branches prohibited, see §
94.06
   Trees near lot line or on public ground, see §
94.03
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate dead and diseased trees, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
§ 93.25 FIREWOOD STORAGE.
   (A)   Storage of firewood for domestic use on any premises shall be
prohibited subject to the following exceptions:
      (1)   Storage must be on a rack at least six inches off of the ground;
      (2)   Storage rack shall not be located within one foot of any building;
      (3)   Firewood must be stacked neatly on a rack as provided herein;
      (4)   Firewood must be cut into usable lengths not to exceed 24 inches;
      (5)   Storage must be in rear yard area and not less than three feet from
the property line; and
      (6)   Storage height may not exceed eight feet, including ground
clearance.
   (B)   As used in this section, FIREWOOD means any and all wood, logs,
sticks, twigs, branches, stumps and stakes, and includes wood items of every
kind and description used for fireplaces or wood burning stoves.
(Ord. 2015-O-010, passed 5-4-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Authority to regulate firewood, see Neb. RS 17-554
   Maintenance of a nuisance, see Neb. RS 28-1321
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Municipal Property
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Maintenance and control
   
94.03   Obstructions
   
94.04   Weeds
   
94.05   Signs and canopies
   
94.06   Overhanging branches
   
94.07   Sale and conveyance
   
94.08   Acquisition of property; construction; elections, when required
   
94.09   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
94.10   Acquisition of real property; public meeting
   
94.11   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
Sidewalks
   
94.20   Requirement to keep clean
   
94.21   Maintenance
   
94.22   Sidewalks; repair
   
94.23   Use of space beneath
   
94.24   Dangerous stairway
   
94.25   Construction at owner's initiative
   
94.26   Construction at municipal direction
   
94.27   Sidewalk cafes
Streets
   
94.40   Grading, paving and other improvements
   
94.41   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
94.42   Vacating public ways
   
94.43   Crossings
   
94.44   Names and numbers
   
94.45   Cutting into paving, curb, or sidewalk
   
94.46   Driveway approaches
   
94.47   Excavation
   
94.48   Driving stakes
   
94.49   Mixing concrete
   
94.50   Harmful liquids
   
94.51   Eave and gutter spouts
   
94.52   Heavy equipment; special tires
   
94.53   Pipe lines and wires
   
94.54   Snow, debris, and the like on street prohibited
Mailboxes/Newspaper Delivery Boxes
   
94.60   Mailboxes may not interfere with public right-of-way
   
94.61   Location and construction of mailboxes
   
94.62   Mailbox installation
Cross-reference:
   Cutting into paving, curbs or sidewalks, see §
94.45
   Eave and gutter spouts, see §
94.51
   Street games, see §
131.02
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(`77 Code, § 8-101)
§ 94.02 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the
municipality and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free
from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567(1)) (`77 Code, § 8-102)
§ 94.03 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line, or upon
public ground, and interfering with the use or construction of any public
improvements shall be deemed an obstruction under this chapter. Such trees and
shrubs and their roots may be removed by the municipality at the expense of the
owner of the property upon which the tree is located should the owner fail, or
neglect, after notice, to do so.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation
to obstruct, or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or
otherwise, any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
      (3)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed
when the owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall permit or suffer to
remain on any premise owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery,
bush, or similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line whether there
is a sidewalk abutting or adjoining such premise or not. It shall be the duty
of owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such
similar growth.
      (4)   Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow within two feet of the
lot line contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the City Council may pass
a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove such obstructions within
five days after having been served with a copy of the resolution by the
municipality stating that the municipality will do so and will charge the costs
thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as
herein provided, or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name of
the municipality against the owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of an
owner or occupant engaged in construction of any building or improvement upon
or near the public ways and property to have all excavations or exposures of
any kind protected and guarded by suitable guards or barricades by day and by
warning lights at night.
      (5)   In the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the municipality to stop
all work upon the buildings and improvements until suitable guards are erected
and kept in the manner aforesaid. Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line
partially on public ground and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly
upon the abutting property, but so close to the lot line as to interfere with
the making of any public improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere
with any utility wires or pipe shall be deemed an obstruction, and such trees,
shrubs, and roots may be removed by the municipality pursuant to the procedure
prescribed above.
      (6)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(`77 Code, § 8-103)
   (B)   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking, or repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with such
building material and equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall
make application to and receive a permit in writing from the municipal official
in charge of municipal streets to do so, provided that no permit for the
occupancy of the sidewalk space and more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which said building is to be
constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be granted, and
provided further that a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained
within the public space included in the permit which shall be protected and
lighted in the manner required by the official issuing the permit.
(`77 Code, § 8-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to remove obstructions, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to regulate and abate obstructions, see Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-
557.01
§ 94.04 WEEDS.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the
corporate limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and
noxious weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner or
occupant thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be
practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds, provided that any weeds growing in excess of 12
inches on any sidewalk space shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the owner of the lot or parcel of land
abutting said sidewalk space within the municipality is a non-resident of the
municipality or cannot be found therein the notice may be given to any person
having the care, custody, or control of such lot or parcel of land.
      (2)   In the event that there can be found no one within the municipality
to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premise
and then to cut or cause the weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and
report the cost thereof in writing to the City Council. The cost shall then be
audited and paid by the municipality and the amount thereof shall be assessed
against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax thereon and shall be
collected as are other taxes of the municipality or may be recovered by civil
suit brought by the municipality against the owner of the parcel of land.
      (3)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-563
§ 94.05 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster, or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley, or on
other public property without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits
for signs, canopies, posters, and signboards shall be issued by the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer, subject to the approval of the Utilities Superintendent upon
payment of a fee set by resolution of the City Council. All signs and canopies
extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place must
be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger of the
same being dislodged by ordinary winds, or falling from other causes. No sign
or canopy shall be erected or maintained which extends over any public
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in such a location as to
obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal. Upon the written order
of the governing body, any person owning or occupying the premise where such a
sign, canopy, poster, or signboard is located, shall cause the same to be
removed within the time limit specified on such notice.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street. Whenever the limbs or branches of any
tree or trees extend over streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions
herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights or
with the convenience of the public using the street or sidewalk, the City
Council at any regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the
owner or occupant to cut or remove the obstructions within five days after
having received a copy thereof from the Utilities Superintendent stating that
the municipality will remove the branches and charge the costs thereof to the
owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided,
if the resolution is not complied with.
   (B)   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557 and 17-557.01
§ 94.07 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (I) of this section, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) of this
section and the terms thereof shall be published once each week for three
consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation
in the municipality.
   (D)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein and is
filed with the City Council, such property shall not then, nor within one year
thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within
the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
   (E)   (1)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
City Council shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall also compare the signer's printed name, street and number or
voting precinct, and municipal or post office address with the voter
registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered voter.
The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street and
number or voting precinct, and municipal or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the City Council.
      (3)   The determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may
be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council finds sufficient.
The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter
registration records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the
remonstrance, the sufficiency of the remonstrance, and the qualifications of
the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and misrepresentation in the
remonstrance process. Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the
reason for the invalidity of the signature.
      (4)   If the Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that a
signer has affixed his or her signature more than once to the remonstrance and
that only one person is registered by that name, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth
the name of the duplicate signature and shall count only the earliest dated
signature. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council.
      (5)   The delivery shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement
officials, or by certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20
signatures on one signature page shall be counted.
   (F)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (G)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state of Nebraska for state armory sites
or, if acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed
strictly in accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (H)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale. The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall upon passage of such
ordinance certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the
county in which the property is located.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (I)   (1)   Divisions (A) through (H) of this section shall not apply to the
sale of real and personal property if the authorizing resolution directs the
sale of an item or items of real and personal property, the total fair market
value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the resolution
directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three
prominent places within the municipality for a period of not less than seven
days prior to the sale of the property.
      (2)   The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
      (3)   Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
(`77 Code, § 8-104) (Am. Ord. 359, passed 2-7-83; Am. Ord. 1994-O-, passed 9-
12-94; Am. Ord. 1996-O-020, passed 8-5-96)
§ 94.08 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS, WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by
gift or devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building, or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the municipality at a general municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954 and be
adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, and no election
shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days
after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in number
to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein and is filed with the City Council.
      (2)   If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (3)   If a remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the
municipality at a general municipal election or a special election duly called
for that purpose.
      (4)   If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property
involved shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be
purchased or constructed.
      (5)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) of this section if the property can
be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there
is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000.
      (6)   The purchase shall be approved by the City Council after notice and
public hearing as provided in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
§ 94.09 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   The municipality shall not purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for
consideration real property having an estimated value of $100,000 or more
unless an appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real
estate appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403) (`77 Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 1995-O-027, passed 8-7-95)
§ 94.10 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING.
   When acquiring an interest in real property by purchase or eminent domain,
the municipality shall do so only after the City Council has authorized the
acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public
hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-1755) (`77 Code, § 8-108)
§ 94.11 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the municipality
shall not engage in the construction of any public works involving architecture
or engineering unless the plans, specifications, and estimates have been
prepared and the construction has been observed by an architect, a professional
engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of an architect,
professional engineer, or those under the direct supervision of an architect or
professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $86,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance by the municipality of professional services for itself
if the municipality appoints a municipal engineer or employs a full-time person
licensed under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is in
responsible charge of architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the municipality that is
not subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 to 81-3453.
(Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449, and 81-3453) .
Statutory reference:
   Public service provider defined, see Neb. RS 81-3423
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.20 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner
of any vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet,
mud, ice, or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any
snow, sleet, ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk.
   (B)   All sidewalks within the business district shall be cleaned within
five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow
shall have taken place during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be
cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, provided that sidewalks within the
residential areas of the municipality shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
(`77 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 94.21 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to the
lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair,
and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the City Council shall
have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and assess
the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(`77 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 SIDEWALKS; REPAIR.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may require sidewalks to be repaired in
such a manner as the Mayor and Council deem necessary, and if they are not
repaired, to assess the expense thereof on the property in front of which such
repairs are made.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct the repair of
sidewalks to be accomplished within a specific time period. Said resolution
shall further indicate that failure to repair the sidewalk within the time
period may cause the sidewalk to be repaired by the city and the cost assessed
against the property.
   (C)   The resolution shall further direct that notice be given in the
following manner:
      (1)   Written notice of the resolution requiring the sidewalks to be
repaired shall be personally served upon the occupant in possession of the
property involved, at least ten days prior to the commencement of the repair;
or written notice of the disrepair shall be posted upon the premises ten prior
to the commencement of such repair.
      (2)   Written notice shall also be sent certified mail, return receipt
requested to any non-resident property owner. The last known address shall that
address listed on tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
   (C)   If the owner of any property abutting the street or any part thereof
fails to repair the sidewalk in front of that property within the time and
manner directed by resolution of the Council after having received due notice
to do so, the Mayor or Council can cause the sidewalk to be repaired.
   (D)   If repairs have been made by the municipality, a request for payment
shall be sent to the owner, and if not paid, the Mayor and City Council may
assess the cost of the repairs against the property in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Council at a special meeting,
by resolution taking into account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in
a consequence of such sidewalk repairs, in the amount charged against the same.
      (2)   Notice of this special meeting shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city at least four weeks before the hearing, or
in lieu thereof, personal service may be had upon the persons owning or
occupying the property to be assessed.
      (3)   In addition, in the event that the property owner is a non-resident
of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before
levying special assessments against the property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be the address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
      (4)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties, and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Ord. 2006-O-011, passed 4-3-06)
§ 94.23 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit therefor shall have been
obtained from the governing body. Before any permit shall be granted, the
applicant for said permit shall submit plans and specifications of any present
or proposed construction to the Municipal Engineer. Should such plans or
specifications be disapproved by the Engineer, no permit shall be granted
therefor. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving the same shall build, maintain, and keep in repair a
sidewalk over such space used or constructed to be used and pay all damages
that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of said
sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition precedent
to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the municipal sidewalks as herein contemplated, the governing body
may require applicant to furnish a bond to the municipality as obligee for the
benefit of any person or persons who may suffer any damage or damages by reason
of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the governing body, in its
discretion, may designate.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.24 DANGEROUS STAIRWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way, or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement, or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, provided that all existing stairways, open cellarways,
open basement ways, or open entrances thereto in sidewalks, pavements, or
streets may be permitted to remain from and after the passage, approval, and
publication of this code if the person owning or using the opening in the
sidewalk, or street, shall satisfy the Utilities Superintendent that the same
is properly protected by a balustrade or coping of durable material and shall
furnish the municipality with a bond in such amount as the governing body may
set, for the benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by
reason of the use of the stairway, cellarway, or open basement way.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER'S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   (1)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and
file such application in the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The
permit shall give a description of the lot or piece of land along which the
sidewalk is to be constructed.
      (2)   The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied, provided that
if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the City Council who shall determine
whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct, or cause to be constructed the sidewalk at any other
location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the municipality. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade or elevation,
and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated
by the municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 CONSTRUCTION AT MUNICIPAL DIRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
City Council's intention to construct the sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer by publication of notice one time in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of the notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, the
notice shall be posted upon such premises ten days prior to the commencement of
construction. The notice required in this section shall be prepared by the
Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such
service shall include a form of return evidencing personal service or posting
as herein required.
   (C)   The notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering the owner to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication, and further that if the
owner fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed, and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises, provided that the notice shall contain the official estimate of the
cost of construction, and no special assessment in excess of this estimate
shall be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(`77 Code, § 8-204)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to construct and repair sidewalk without improvement district, see
Neb. RS 17-522 through 17-524
   Authority to construct or otherwise improve through sidewalk district, see
Neb. RS 19-2417 through 19-2419
   Authority to construct pedestrian walks by creation of improvement district,
see Neb. RS 17-509 et seq.
§ 94.27 SIDEWALK CAFES.
   The City Council may permit the public streets and sidewalks within the city
limits to be occupied and used under a lease, license, or other permission by a
person, business, or others for the sale of services or goods and to permit the
placement of nonpermanent sidewalk cafes, tables, chairs, benches, and other
temporary improvements from which such sales can be transacted on the public
streets and sidewalks.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 19-4301
STREETS
§ 94.40 GRADING, PAVING AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The municipality has the power to provide for the grading and repair
of any street, avenue, or alley. No street, avenue, or alley shall be graded
unless the grading is ordered to be done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds
of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-508)
   (B)   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or
relay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public
grounds, public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the city
corporate area and the area adjoining the city. These projects may be funded at
public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property especially
benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in Neb. RS 19-
2428 to 19-2431. The City Council may by ordinance create improvement
districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may include two or more
connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways, and may include two
or more of the improvements in one proceeding.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
   (C)   Whenever the City Council deems it necessary to make the improvements
in division (B) which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the
property especially benefitted, the City Council shall by ordinance create an
improvement district.
(Neb. RS 17-511)
Statutory references:
   Acquisition of additional land or an easement by purchase, gift, or eminent
domain, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Authority to create improvement districts, impose special assessments, and
issue bonds, see Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-524, 18-1751
   Combined improvements, see Neb. RS 19-2401, 19-2408 to 19-2415
   Creation of improvement district by petition of owners, see Neb. RS 17-510
   Deferral of special assessments on land in agricultural use zone, see Neb.
RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
   Duty to keep streets and alleys open, in repair, and free from nuisances,
see Neb. RS 17-567
   Improvement of federal or state highway or main thoroughfare, see Neb. RS
17-512
   Improvement of street which divides city corporate area and area adjoining
the city, see Neb. RS 17-509
   Inclusion of adjacent land in improvement district, see Neb. RS 19-2427
   Jurisdiction over street which forms common boundary with county or another
municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
   Objections to improvement district funded by special assessments, see Neb.
RS 17-511
§ 94.41 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The municipality may, without petition or creating a street
improvement district, grade, curb, gutter, and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance not to exceed one block on either side of such paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from such
major traffic street.
   (B)   Such improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or any
unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed the minimum
standards for pavement set by the municipality for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
municipality may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or issue paving
bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 to 18-2004)
§ 94.42 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   (1)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or
injuries which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique
to his or her property and which result from the City Council vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way.
      (2)   SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses or damages or injuries
that a property owner suffers that are in common with the rest of the city or
public at large, even though those losses or damages or injuries suffered by
the property owner are greater in degree that the rest of the city or public at
large.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the municipality to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special
damages that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which
resulted from the City Council vacating such street, avenue, alley, lane or
similar public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved
by the City Council. Only special damages, as herein defined, shall be awarded
to the abutting property owners.
   (C)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the Commission shall use the following
rule:
   "The abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of such property immediately before and
immediately after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. However, if no difference in value exists the abutting property
owner is entitled to no compensation."
   (D)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the municipality to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or
similar public way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the municipality. The content of the notice will advise the
abutting property owners that the City Council will consider vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at their next regular
meeting or, if a special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the
date, time and place of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver.
         (a)   The City Council may have all the abutting property owners sign
a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the City Council
and waive their right of access. The signing of such form has no effect on
claims for special damages, as defined in divisions (A) through (C) of this
section by the abutting property owners but does create the presumption that
the City Council action was proper.
         (b)   However, if all the abutting property owners do not sign the
consent/waiver form, the City Council may still proceed with vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way under the authority granted
them by Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that shall
state essentially the following:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the municipality.
         (b)   A statement that the municipality shall have an easement for
maintaining all utilities.
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
      (4)   Filing. The Clerk/Treasurer shall file a copy of the ordinance with
the County Register of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can gain
title to their share of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way and so that such land will be drawn to the attention of the County
Assessor.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
§ 94.43 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the municipal official in charge of streets, such street,
avenue, and alley crossings as the City Council shall deem necessary. When a
petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested
resident in the office of the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall refer such application to the Utilities Superintendent who
shall investigate and make a recommendation to the City Council. Action by the
City Council on such application, whether the application is approved or
rejected, shall be considered final.
(`77 Code, § 8-302)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 94.44 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the municipal official in charge of
streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to assign the
proper numbers to the building or buildings and give notice to the owner or
owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
(`77 Code, § 8-301)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 94.45 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, OR SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City Council
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, the person shall inform the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it
shall be the Utilities Superintendent's duty to inspect the place of entry into
the paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any
paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the City Council or the Municipal
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, the applicant
shall inform the Utilities Superintendent, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the City Council to order the Utilities Superintendent,
under the supervision and inspection of the Municipal Engineer or the committee
of the City Council on the streets and alleys, to do the work of cutting and
closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such
permit. The City Council may consent to the work of cutting and closing the
paving to be done by the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued
by the City Council, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the City Council for all
paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot
cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the Municipality
for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event that
the work is done by the municipality. In the event that the municipality elects
to require the applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit
shall be retained by the municipality until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent or the committee of the City
Council on streets and alleys. In addition to making the deposit above set
forth, the applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the
municipality with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by
the City Council in a sum set by resolution of the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 8-401)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 94.46 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Utilities Superintendent may require the owner of property served
by a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way
to repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall give the property owner notice by
registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such
owner or the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such
driveway approach. If within 30 days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.47 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Utilities Superintendent authorizing such excavations.
(`77 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 94.48 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Utilities Superintendent.
(`77 Code, § 8-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 94.49 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(`77 Code, § 8-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 94.50 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(`77 Code, § 8-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 94.51 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the municipality where
the dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or
business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain the eave spouts into the alley.
(`77 Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 94.52 HEAVY EQUIPMENT; SPECIAL TIRES.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon the pavement, with wheels having cutting edges, with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter, or curb, provided that, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the Police Chief is hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than 7/64 of an inch between November 1 and March 15, provided that school
buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type
studs all year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the streets. It shall be permissible to use
tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety
because of snow, ice, or other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or
skid. It shall be permissible to use a rubber tired crane with a fixed load
when such vehicle will be transported on a state highway or on any road within
the corporate limits of the municipality, the municipality in which the crane
is intended to be transported has authorized a one-day permit for the
transportation of the crane and specified the route to be used and the hours
during which the crane can be transported, such vehicle is escorted by another
vehicle or vehicles assigned by the municipality, and such vehicle's gross
weight does not exceed the limits set out in Neb. RS 60-6,294(10). Neb. RS 60-
6,250 allows studded tires between November 1 and April 1, and authorizes
school busses, mail carrier vehicles, and emergency vehicles to use studs any
time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Rubber-tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288(2)(j)
   Tire requirements, see Neb. RS 60-6,250
§ 94.53 PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the City Council. Such poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by
the companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the City Council.
Any such relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the City Council, and the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall notify any and all companies affected. The
companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at their own expense,
cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be
removed. The City Council shall designate another location as closely as
possible where the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances,
may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances, shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they
will not interfere with the water system, sewerage system, poles, wires, and
mains of any public utility, adjacent buildings, or with travel on the public
ways and property. Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines, or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the municipality.
(`77 Code, § 8-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.54 SNOW, DEBRIS, AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push, or deposit snow, sleet, ice, or mud or
any debris, including leaves, grass, and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
MAILBOXES/NEWSPAPER DELIVERY BOXES
§ 94.60 MAILBOXES MAY NOT INTERFERE WITH PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No mailbox or newspaper delivery box (hereinafter referred to as mailbox)
will be allowed to exist on public right-of-way if it interferes with the
safety of traveling public or the function, maintenance, or operation of the
street and highway system.
(Ord. 2013-O-016, passed 7-22-13)
§ 94.61 LOCATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF MAILBOXES.
   The location and construction of mailboxes shall conform to the rules and
regulations of the U.S. Postal Service, as well as to more strict standards
established herein.
(Ord. 2013-O-016, passed 7-22-13)
§ 94.62 MAILBOX INSTALLATION.
   A mailbox installation that conforms to the following criteria will be
considered acceptable, unless in the judgment of the City Street Commissioner
the installation interferes with the safety of the traveling public or the
function, maintenance, or operation of the street and highway system
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   No mailbox will be permitted where access is otherwise prohibited
by law or regulation.
      (2)   On uncurbed streets or highways, mailboxes shall be located on the
right-hand side of the roadway in the direction of the delivery route. The
bottom of the box shall be set at an elevation established by the U.S. Postal
Service, usually between three feet six inches and four feet above the roadway
surface. The roadside face of the box shall be offset from the edge of the
traveled way a minimum distance of the greater of the following: eight feet
(where no paved shoulder exists), the width of the all-weather shoulder present
plus eight to 12 inches, or the width of an all-weather turnout specified by
the City plus eight to 12 inches.
      (3)   On curbed streets, the mailbox, when opened, shall be set back from
the face of the curb a distance of 12 inches.
      (4)   Where a mailbox is located at a driveway entrance, it shall be
placed on the far side of the driveway in the direction of the delivery route.
      (5)   Where a mailbox is located at an intersecting road, it shall be
located a minimum of 50 feet beyond the center of the intersecting road in the
direction of the delivery route. The distance shall be increased to 100 feet
when the average daily traffic on the intersecting road exceeds 400 vehicles
per day.
      (6)   No post office box or cluster of post office boxes shall be located
along the curbside within the business district of the city.
   (B)   Structure.
      (1)   Mailboxes shall be of light sheet metal or plastic construction
conforming to the requirements of the U.S. Postal Service. Newspaper delivery
boxes shall be of light sheet metal or plastic construction of minimum
dimensions suitable for holding a newspaper.
      (2)   No more than two mailboxes may be mounted on a support structure
unless the support structure and mailbox arrangement have been shown to be safe
by crash testing. However, lightweight newspaper boxes may be mounted below the
mailbox on the side of the mailbox support.
      (3)   Mailbox supports shall not be set in concrete unless the support
design has been shown to be safe by crash tests when so installed.
      (4)   A single four inch or four and one-half inch diameter wooden post
of cedar or treated composite for below grade use, or a metal post with a
strength no greater than a two inch diameter standard strength steel pipe and
embedded nor more than 24 inches into the ground will be acceptable as a
mailbox support. A metal post shall not be fitted with an anchor plate, but it
may have an anti-twist device that extends no more than ten inches below the
ground surface.
      (5)   The post-to-box attachment details should be of sufficient strength
to prevent the box from separating from the post top if the installation is
struck by a vehicle.
      (6)   The minimum spacing between the centers of support posts shall be
three-fourths the height of the posts above the ground line.
      (7)   Mailbox support designs not described in this regulation will be
acceptable if approved by the City Street Commissioner.
   (C)   Shoulder and parking area construction. It will be the responsibility
of the postal patron to inform the City of any new or existing mailbox
installation where shoulder construction is inadequate to permit all-weather
vehicular access to the mailbox.
   (D)   Removal of non-conforming or unsafe mailboxes. Any mailbox that is
found to violate the intent of this regulation shall be removed by the postal
patron upon notification by the city. At the discretion of the city, based on
an assessment of hazard to the public, the patron will be granted not less than
24 hours nor more than 30 days to remove an unacceptable mailbox. After the
specified removal period has expired, the unacceptable mailbox will be removed
by the city at the postal patron's expense.
(Ord. 2013-O-016, passed 7-22-13)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Animals; running at large
   
95.02   Animals; prohibited animals and fowl; special permits
   
95.03   Animals; prohibited animals­general regulations
   
95.04   Killing and injuring
   
95.05   Enclosures
   
95.06   Abandonment, neglect and cruelty
   
95.07   Pitting prohibited
Dogs and Cats; General Provisions
   
95.20   Dogs and cats; owner defined
   
95.21   Dogs and cats; running at large
   
95.22   Rabies threat; proclamation; inspection
   
95.23   Capture impossible
   
95.24   Female in season
   
95.25   Dangerous dogs
   
95.26   Liability of owner
   
95.27   Impounding
   
95.28   Animal shelter
   
95.29   Dogs and cats: license required
   
95.30   Application
   
95.31   Rabies inoculation required
   
95.32   License fee
   
95.33   License exceptions
   
95.34   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs, and service dogs; exempt from license tax
   
95.35   License tags
   
95.36   Wrong licensing
   
95.37   Uncollared dogs or cats
   
95.38   Removal of tags
   
95.39   Removal of dog, cat and other animal defecation from public and private
properties.
   
95.40   Limitation
   
95.41   Exception to the restrictions on the number of dogs or cats
   
95.42   Harboring
   
95.43   Petitions complaining of vicious or barking dogs or crying cats
   
95.44   Confinement of dogs and cats
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or
any person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse,
mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at large on
any of the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or
pass into any public way. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry,
chickens, turkeys, geese, or any other fowls to run at large within the
corporate.
(RS Neb. 17-547) (Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.02 ANIMALS; PROHIBITED ANIMALS AND FOWL; SPECIAL PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, or other livestock. It shall
be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate limits any
poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese, or any other fowls, provided an exception
may be granted for 4-H or similar projects of domestic animals such as rabbits,
if an application for an exemption is applied for and obtained from the City
Animal Control Officer. After inspection of the premises and a finding of fact
to the effect no nuisance will be created thereby, such special permit will
only be issued for a term of one year for the keeping of such animals, and only
where, due to the condition, size of the lot or acreage involved and
determination from other premises, that no nuisance will be created.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.03 ANIMALS; PROHIBITED ANIMALS­GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited animals. No person shall bring into, keep, maintain, offer
for sale or barter, or release anywhere in the city, any of the following
animals:
      (1)   Any poisonous or venomous biting or injecting species of amphibian,
arachnid or reptile, including snakes.
      (2)   Any snake not indigenous to this state and any snake over three
feet long.
   (B)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not prohibit a circus or other
entertainment organization, an educational, scientific or medical institution
or the Department of Parks and Recreation, from keeping such animals where the
same is securely and humanely confined.
   (C)   Seizure of animals. Any officer employed and authorized by the Health
Department or any police or humane officer of the city shall have the authority
to enforce the provisions of this chapter including, but not limited to, taking
possession of any animal which the officer reasonably believes has been taken,
employed, used or possessed in violation of this chapter. If the person in
possession of such animal refuses to relinquish possession of the animal, the
police officer or humane officer shall obtain an appropriate court order, with
the assistance of the City Attorney, to obtain possession. This chapter shall
not be interpreted to authorize or attempt to authorize entry into places not
open to the public, without either the consent of the owner or person in
possession or search warrant or other court order.
   (D)   Holding animals. Any animal seized shall be held by the animal control
officer until that animal is identified to ascertain if the animal is an
endangered species. At any time after such identification, the city may seek an
order from a court for other care, custody and control of the animal. The city
may also request the court to order the defendant to post a bond in an amount
sufficient to satisfy the costs of holding the animal.
   (E)   Forfeiting possession. Anyone violating this chapter shall, in
addition to any other penalty, forfeit the animal to the city Animal Control
Officer for destruction or disposition. Prior to such forfeiture, the Health
Department may direct a transfer of the animal to a qualified, zoological,
educational, or scientific institution or qualified propagator for safekeeping,
with costs assessed to the defendant.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.04 KILLING AND INJURING.
   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms, stones,
clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or dangerous
and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to effect a
capture of the animal.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals and fowl not specifically barred within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.06 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND CRUELTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal for any length of time without making
effective provision for its food, water, or other care as is reasonably
necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. 
         (a)   Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom except man.
    
         (b)   The term shall not include an uncaptured wild creature.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Police Chief, or any other police officer of
the city.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise set upon any animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the municipality,
or any other public official authorized by the municipality to enforce state or
local animal control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
   (B)   Enforcement powers.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed by law.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
   (C)   Violation. A person commits cruelty to animals if he or she abandons,
cruelly mistreats, or cruelly neglects an animal.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.07 PITTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BEAR-BAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly promote, engage in, or be employed at
dogfighting, cockfighting, bear-baiting, or pitting an animal against another;
nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission of another
person to a place kept for such purpose; nor shall any person knowingly own,
use, train, sell, or possess an animal for the purpose of animal pitting; nor
shall any person knowingly permit any act described in this section to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(RS Neb. 28-1004)
   (C)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bear-baiting, or the pitting of an animal
against another as prohibited.
(RS Neb. 28-1005)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any domestic animal to knowingly
cause or allow the same to run at large or be exposed in any public place
anywhere in the city, or to ship or remove such animal from the owner's
premises when same is afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease except
under the supervision of the health officer. This provision shall not prevent
taking a diseased animal to a licensed veterinarian at the request of the
veterinarian. It shall be the duty of the health officer to order the
disposition of such diseased animal and treatment of the affected premises to
prevent the communication and spread of contagion or infection except in cases
where the state veterinarian is empowered to act and does act.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
DOGS AND CATS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.20 DOGS AND CATS; OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog or cat to be for ten days or
more in or about his or her house, store, or enclosure, or to remain to be fed,
shall be deemed the OWNER and possessor of such dog or cat and shall be deemed
to be liable for all penalties herein prescribed.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.21 DOGS AND CATS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to allow
such dog or cat to run at large at any time within the corporate limits of the
municipality.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief or designated animal
control officer to cause any dog or cat found to be running at large within the
municipality to be taken up and impounded.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RUNNING AT LARGE. Any dog or cat found off the premises of the owner and
not under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash, cord,
chain, wire, rope, cage, or other suitable means.
(RS Neb. 17-526) (Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.22 RABIES THREAT; PROCLAMATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Council, whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs or cats is great or imminent, to
issue a proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog
or cat to muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30
days nor more than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such
danger is passed. The dogs or cats may be harbored by any good and sufficient
means in a house, garage, or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may
reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping, or harboring any dog or cat to confine the same as herein
provided.
   (B)   Any dog or cat suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any dog or
cat not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized and
impounded under the supervision of the Board of Health for a period of not less
than ten days. If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog or cat has no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to
the owner, or, in the case of an unlicensed dog or cat, it shall be disposed of
in accordance with the provisions herein. If the owner of the said dog or cat
has proof of vaccination, it shall be confined by the owner or some other
responsible person for a period of at least ten days, at which time the dog or
cat shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the owner's expense. If no
signs of rabies are observed, the dog or cat may be released from confinement.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.23 CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Police Chief or designated animal control officer shall have the
authority to kill any animals showing vicious tendencies, or characteristics of
rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger involved.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.24 FEMALE IN SEASON.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of a
female dog or cat to permit her to run at large within the municipality while
in season. Any such female dog or cat found running at large in violation of
this section shall be declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be
impounded or killed according to the provisions herein.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.25 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicated or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the municipality.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Police Chief or any individual employed,
appointed, or authorized by the city for the purpose of aiding in the
enforcement of this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the
licensing of animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals
and shall include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose
duties in whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and
impoundment of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the animal
control authority:
         (a)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public
or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog
was off the owner's property; or
         (c)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an Animal Control Authority and the owner had received notice of such
determination and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be sustained by a person
who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-
203, 28-520, or 28-521 or any other tort upon the property of the owner of the
dog, who was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, who has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or
who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog or cat.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts a non-severe injury on a human or injures a domestic
animal either on public or private property; or
            2.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more
broken bones or that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the
victim.
   (B)   Restraint. No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go
beyond the property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a
chain or leash.
   (C)   Confinement.
      (1)   While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous dog shall be
securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping.
      (2)   The pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If
the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from
the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a warning sign on the
property where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and that informs persons
that a dangerous dog is on the property.
   (D)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.26 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog or cat owned, kept, or
harbored by the owner, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such dog or cat, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.27 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of any animal control official designated by resolution
of the City Council to capture, secure, and remove in a humane manner to the
designated animal shelter any dog or cat violating any of the provisions of
this chapter. The dogs or cats so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner
and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each
day. Each impounded dog or cat shall be kept and maintained at the shelter for
a period of not less than five days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including
any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and at the shelter within 24 hours after impoundment
as public notification of such impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any
licensed dog shall be mailed to the owner listed on the license application of
such dog or cat, by regular U.S. Mail, at the address of such applicant. Any
dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment by
payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by resolution
of the governing body and on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. The
owner shall be required to comply with the licensing and rabies vaccination
before release. If the dog or cat is not claimed at the end of the required
waiting period after public notice has been given, any animal control official
designated by resolution of the City Council, may dispose of the dog or cat in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same,
provided that if, in the judgment of any designated animal control official, a
suitable home can be found for any such dog or cat within the municipality, the
said dog shall be turned over to that person, and the new owner shall then be
required to pay all fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements
provided in this chapter. The municipality shall acquire legal title to any
unlicensed dog or cat impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than
the required waiting period after giving notice. All dogs and cats shall be
destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the
Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found for such dog or cat.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.28 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The designated animal shelter shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently
located for the impounding, keeping, and destruction of dogs and cats. The
shelter shall be sanitary, ventilated, and lighted.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.29 DOGS AND CATS: LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor any dog or cat in the
city without having first obtained a license or appropriate permit therefor by
application to the City Clerk/Treasurer. Only persons who comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such
license.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.30 APPLICATION.
   Written application for a license shall be made annually by the owner on a
form provided by the city. The owner shall be identified by name, address and
telephone number and the dog or cat sex, age, breed, color and call name and
the rabies inoculation certificate number, date and administering veterinarian
given.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.31 RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog or cat harbored in the city to
have such dog or cat inoculated against rabies. The owner or harborer of such
dog or cat shall at all times keep in his or her possession evidence of rabies
inoculation consisting of a certificate signed by the licensed veterinarian
administering the vaccine. A copy of the certificate of rabies inoculation
shall be presented with the application for license as required. No license
shall be issued unless such certificate bears a date within one year prior to
the date of license application if a one-year immunization vaccine was used, or
within three years prior to the date of license application if a three-years
immunization vaccine was administered.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.32 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The license for any dog or cat shall expire on December 31
following the date of its issuance. The annual license fee is payable within
the first two months of the calendar year or within one week after the date on
which such dog or cat is acquired, whichever is later. The annual license fee
for each dog or cat is as follows:
         (a)   Sexually altered dog or cat: $5;
         (b)   Unaltered dog or cat: $15.
      (2)   An additional annual fee of $1.25 per license shall also be
charged. The city shall retain $.03 of the fee collected for administrative
costs and the balance shall be paid to the State Treasurer for the Commercial
Dog and Cat Operator Inspection Program Cash Fund as required by law.
   (B)   Written certification by a licensed veterinarian must be presented
upon application for the fees application in division (A)(1)(a) above.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03; Am. Ord. 2010-O-007, passed 6-7-10; Am. Ord.
2016-O-004, passed 1-4-16)
§ 95.33 LICENSE EXCEPTIONS.
   A current year license issued by another governmental jurisdiction which
requires rabies inoculation as a licensing prerequisite will be honored by the
city as a valid license through the above specified expiration date.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.34 DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS, AND SERVICE DOGS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE
TAX.
   Every dog guide for blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for a
deaf or hearing-impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the municipal code, but no license tax
shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a graduate of a
recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs, or service dogs.
Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide, hearing aid
dog or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the payment of the
required license tax.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.35 LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the person designated by the
licensing authority shall issue to the owner of a dog or cat a license
certificate and a metallic tag for each dog or cat so licensed. The metallic
tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness of all dogs or cats so
licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said dog or cat
until December 31 following such licensing.
   (B)   In the event that a licensed tag is lost and upon satisfactory
evidence that the original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions
herein, the person designated by the licensing authority shall issue a
duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has
been paid and shall charge and collect a fee set by resolution of the City
Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued. All license fees and
collections shall be immediately credited to the general fund. It shall be the
duty of the person designated by the licensing authority to issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.36 WRONG LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog or cat to wear any license, metallic tag or other
municipal identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer for
dogs, nor shall the owner, keeper or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license
an unneutered dog with a license prescribed for a neutered dog or cat.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.37 UNCOLLARED DOGS OR CATS.
   All dogs or cats found running at large upon the streets and public ground
of the municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public
nuisance. Uncollared dogs and cats found running at large shall be destroyed or
impounded by the person so designated by the City Council.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.38 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.39 REMOVAL OF DOG, CAT AND OTHER ANIMAL DEFECATION FROM PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
PROPERTIES.
   An owner or person having custody of any dog or cat or any other animal
shall not permit said dog or cat or any other animal to defecate on any school
ground, public street, alley, sidewalk, tree bank, park or other public grounds
or any private property within the city, other than the premises of the owner
or person having custody of said dog or cat or other animal, unless said
defecation is removed immediately.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.40 LIMITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, care for, have custody of
or knowingly permit at any time more than three dogs or cats, in any
combination thereof to be upon any property in the city limits.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.41 EXCEPTION TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON THE NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   The owner or person who has custody of a dog or cat may retain the
puppies or kittens, born of said dog or cat exceeding the permissible numbers
set forth in §
95.40 above for 12 weeks after the birth of the animals. If after that time,
there are more than three dogs or cats in any combination in any one residence
or apartment, the owner or person in custody of the dogs or cats will be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who lawfully owned more than three dogs or cats prior to
the enactment of this chapter may retain their animals, provided they retain a
special permit from the Health Officer. The special permit shall be for a term
of one year and no renewal shall be issued without a subsequent inspection. If
for any reason an animal is lost, sold, given away or dies and there still
remains in the residence or apartment three or more dogs or cats, there can be
no replacement of the lost, sold, given or deceased animal. A special permit
shall be issued if after an inspection it is determined by the Health Officer
that:
      (1)   The animals in the owner's possession are not creating a nuisance;
      (2)   There is adequate waste disposal; and
      (3)   There is no hazard to public safety, health and welfare.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.42 HARBORING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or harbor any dog
which habitually barks, howls or yelps, or any cat which habitually cries or
howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or in
such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who
are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.43 PETITIONS COMPLAINING OF VICIOUS OR BARKING DOGS OR CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Whenever any person shall complain to the Police Department that a dog
which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat which habitually cries or howls
is being kept by any person in the city, the Police Department shall notify the
owner of said dog or cat that a complaint has been received and that the person
should take whatever steps necessary to alleviate the howling, yelping or
crying.
   (B)   If the warning given to the person alleged to be keeping a dog or cat
as set forth in (A) above is ineffective, then a verified complaint of a least
two citizens, not from the same family, may be presented to the Police
Department, alleging that a vicious dog or a dog which habitually barks, howls
or yelps, or a cat which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person
within the city. The Police Department shall inform the owner of such dog or
cat that said petition has been received and shall cite the owner of the dog or
cat for the violation alleged in said petition.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03)
§ 95.44 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   In order to harbor dogs or cats within the city, all dogs and cats
shall be at all times confined indoors or in a fenced-in yard with a fence
constructed with sufficient materials of suitable strength and height to
prevent the escape of the animal(s) or confined in an anti-escape locked pen or
structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the animal(s) from escaping or on a tether.
      (1)   Furthermore, it shall be prohibited for any dog to be tethered to
any object with a rope, chain, leash or other device, and left unattended for
any period of time longer than four hours.
         (a)   Dogs that are tethered within a yard for any period of time over
four hours, must be in the presence of the owner or owner’s designee within the
same yard and shall not be tethered in this way for more than eight hours in a
24 hour period.
         (b)   Tethers must be at least five times the length of the dog’s
body, as measured from the tip of the nose to the base of the tail, weight no
more than one-eighth of the dog’s weight, be free of tangles, terminate at each
end with a swivel and prevent the dog from coming within five feet of the edge
of any public street or sidewalk.
      (2)   Any dog or cat that is not confined outdoors in such a way as those
described above, shall be confined on a leash under the direct physical control
of the owner or owner’s designee.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any dog or cat to
ensure that the animal(s) have access to food, water, shade and adequate
shelter given the weather conditions at all times while being confined and that
any confinement remains free of health and safety hazards that may endanger the
life or wellbeing of the animal(s).
   (C)   Any time that the owner designates a person under the age of 18 years
of age as the responsible party for their animal(s), the owner assumes
responsibility for any violations pertaining to the confinement of their animal
(s), regardless of if the owner is present or not.
(Ord. 2016-O-001, passed 1-4-16)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or that person's agents or servants, who violates any of
the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $50. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined $50
per day per animal.
(Ord. 2003-O-020, passed 8-11-03; Am. Ord. 2004-O-021, passed 12-6-04)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful acts
   
96.04   Discriminatory practices; design and construction standards
   
96.05   Residential real estate-related transactions
   
96.06   Multiple listing services; discriminatory practices
   
96.07   Exemptions
   
96.08   Information
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of the city by endorsing the provisions of the Nebraska Fair Housing
Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, to the effect that there shall be no
discrimination in the city in the acquisition, ownership, possession or
enjoyment of housing in accordance with Article 1, Section 25, of the
Constitution of the State of Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 20-113) (`77 Code, § 12-101)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent or other person.
   HANDICAP. Regarding a person with:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for consideration the right
to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status, or ancestry.
(Neb. RS 20-304 through 20-317) (`77 Code, § 12-102)
§ 96.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
96.07, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status, or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status, or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race. color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex
of a person seeking to purchase, rent, or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee's compliance
with this chapter or the Nebraska Fair Housing Act; and
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
(Neb. RS 20-318) (`77 Code, § 12-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES; DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as exempted by §
96.07, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
         (c)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold. rented, or made available.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISCRIMINATION. Includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after September 1, 1991, a failure to
design and construct the dwellings in such a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within the dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(a) above.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
         (a)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings
have one or more elevators; and
         (b)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Neb. RS 20-319) (`77 Code, § 12-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction because
of race, color, religion. sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE.
         (a)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
            1.   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
            2.   Secured by residential real estate.
         (b)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real
property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status, or sex.
(Neb. RS 20-320) (`77 Code, § 12-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICES; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status,
or sex.
(Neb. RS 20-321) (`77 Code, § 12-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired, except that this exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS. Housing:
            1.   Provided under any state program that the commission
determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or
defined in the program;
            2.   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
            3.   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Neb. RS 20-322) (`77 Code, § 12-107)
§ 96.08 INFORMATION.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer upon request shall make available to an
aggrieved person, or any other person, information regarding the Nebraska Fair
Housing Act and the Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission without cost to such
individual.
(Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-322) (`77 Code, § 12-108)
CHAPTER 97: WATER WELLS
Section
   
97.01   Drilling and operation of wells and other underground facilities
without permit unlawful
   
97.02   Procedure to obtain permit
   
97.03   Drilling or installation of other facilities within designated distance
from municipal water sources: prohibited
   
97.98   Abatement
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 53
   Water, see
Chapter 52
§ 97.01 DRILLING AND OPERATION OF WELLS AND OTHER UNDERGROUND FACILITIES
WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person, corporation or other legal entity to drill and/or operate any of
the following facilities within the corporate limits of the city without first
having obtained the proper permit from the City Council; potable water well,
any other well; sewage lagoon; absorption or disposal field for water;
cesspool; dumping grounds; feedlots; livestock pasture or corral; chemical
product storage facility; petroleum product storage facility; pit toilet;
sanitary landfill; septic tank; sewage treatment plant; sewage wet well.
(Ord. 2002-O-013, passed 7-5-02)
§ 97.02 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN PERMIT.
   In order to obtain a permit to drill and/or operate any of the facilities
listed in §
97.01, the owner of the property on which the proposed facility is to be
located must make application on the proper form provided by the City Council.
Such application must be presented to the City Council at any regular or
special meeting. After reviewing the application of any person desiring to
drill or operate any of the above described facilities, the City Council shall
approve or deny the permit.
(Ord. 2002-O-013, passed 7-5-02)
§ 97.03 DRILLING OR INSTALLATION OF OTHER FACILITIES WITHIN DESIGNATED DISTANCE
FROM MUNICIPAL WATER SOURCES: PROHIBITED.
   Under no circumstances shall the City Council approve any permit to drill or
operate any of the below described facilities within the indicated number of
feet from any City of Ravenna municipal water well:
Category Distance
Category                                      Distance
Non-potable water well                        1,000 feet
Sewage lagoon                                 1,000 feet
Absorption or disposal field for waste        500 feet
Cesspool                                      500 feet
Dump                                          500 feet
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                     500 feet
Corral                                        500 feet
Pit toilet                                    500 feet
Sanitary landfill                             500 feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage         500 feet
Septic tank                                   500 feet
Sewage treatment plant                        500 feet
Sewage wet well                               500 feet
Sanitary sewer connection                     100 feet
Sanitary sewer manhole                        100 feet
Sanitary sewer line                           100 feet
Sanitary sewer line (permanently water tight) 10 feet
 
(Ord. 2002-O-013, passed 7-5-02)
§ 97.98 ABATEMENT.
   In the event any of the above described facilities are installed or operated
without first having obtained a permit from the city and/or within the
designated number of feet from any municipal water supply, then such facilities
shall be deemed a nuisance and the governing body shall abate such facility as
a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2002-O-013, passed 7-5-02)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the terms of this chapter is hereby determined
to be guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor as the same is defined by Nebraska
Statute. The penalty for such violation shall be that as defined by Nebraska
law for the violation of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2002-O-013, passed 7-5-02)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   NATURAL GAS COMPANIES
      
114.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
115.   LOTTERY
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Tobacco and Cigarettes
   
110.01   License to sell; issuance
   
110.02   License application
   
110.03   License term; fees
   
110.04   Rights of licensee
   
110.05   Disposition of fees
   
110.06   Transfer of license
   
110.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
§ 110.01 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material,
vapor products, or alternative nicotine products to persons over the age of 18
years shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability
companies, and corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as
provided in this chapter.
(Neb. RS 28-1421) (Ord. 2015-O-011, passed 4-6-15)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited Sales, see Neb. R.S. 28-1421
§ 110.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the City
Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter. If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant's
social security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422) (Ord. 2015-O-011, passed 4-6-15)
§ 110.03 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in any form, at wholesale, shall pay a
license fee of $100, and if such combined annual sales amount to less than
150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler's license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler's combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the
aggregate 150,000 annually and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate
amount for the current year for which the license is to issue. Any person
swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such
wholesaler's license shall be revoked until the full license fee of $100 is
paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) (Ord. 2015-O-011, passed 4-6-15)
§ 110.04 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in this chapter, when issued, shall authorize
the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material, vapor products, or
alternative nicotine products by the licensee and employees, to persons over
the age of 18 years, at the place of business described in the license for the
term therein authorized, unless the license is forfeited as a result of court
action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425) (Ord. 2015-O-011, passed 4-6-15)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 18 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 110.05 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the treasurer of the school fund for
the village.
(Neb. RS 28-1426) (Ord. 2015-O-011, passed 4-6-15)
§ 110.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the City Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the purchaser.
In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the Clerk may
transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428) (Ord. 2015-O-011, passed 4-6-15)
§ 110.07 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429) (Ord. 2015-O-011, passed 4-6-15)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.22   Licensee requirements
   
111.23   Licensees and applicants; municipal powers and duties
   
111.24   Licensees; inspections
   
111.25   License renewal; municipal powers and duties
   
111.26   Catering license
   
111.27   Display of license
   
111.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employer
   
111.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.50   Location
   
111.51   Access to dwellings
   
111.52   Sanitary conditions
   
111.53   Hours of sale
   
111.54   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.55   Spiking beer prohibited
   
111.56   Original package required
   
111.57   Minor's presence restricted
   
111.58   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in section Neb. RS 53-
103 shall be used.
(`77 Code, § 10-101)
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver, or permit
the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any minor or
to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) (`77 Code, § 10-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see Neb. RS 17-135
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186(1))
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take such intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such
person in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as
may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. Such effort at
placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities
or doctor which have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat
such individuals and which regularly do accept such individuals. If such
efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place such
intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective
custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to
prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of such person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
such person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for such actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or municipally-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly-owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter or the Act shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family and guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of such hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment; or
      (8)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (`77 Code, § 10-102 and 10-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship,
or cause to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into the State of
Nebraska for the personal use of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a
quantity of alcoholic liquor in excess of nine liters in any one calendar
month.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03) (`77 Code, § 10-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of Nebraska, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this subdivision on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on such date from
retaining or renewing such license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the act would not be eligible for such license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of Nebraska
and unless all the members of such partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of Nebraska and unless all the members of such company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director of the
corporation or any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the
stock of such corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this
section for any reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (1) and (3)
of this division (A), except that a manager of a corporate licensee shall be a
resident of Nebraska. This subdivision shall not apply to railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on such premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if such license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. Such prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   That the licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   That such licensed premises will be properly operated;
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this subdivision shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) (`77 Code, § 10-106)
§ 111.23 LICENSEES AND APPLICANTS; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Governing Body is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, or craft brewery licensees carried on within the corporate limits
of the Municipality.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receiving from the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a bottle club license, or a craft brewery license,
the Governing Body may make and submit to the commission recommendations
relative to the granting or refusal to grant such license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131(2))
   (C)   The Governing Body, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the Municipality, has the following powers, functions, duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, and craft brewery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, bottle club, or craft brewery
licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor issued to persons for premises
within its jurisdiction, subject to the right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor
Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Governing Body has been or is being violated and at
such time examine the premises of such licensee in connection with such
determination;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon such complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail license fees, bottle club license fees, and craft
brewery license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and pay the same, after the
license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Municipal Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail
licensee, bottle club licensee, or craft brewery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee, and
to hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of
its duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the
Governing Body may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.30, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance or
regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor.
Such order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission
within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with
the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided
for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   (a)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the governing body shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time not less than 7 and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. Such notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Governing Body
in support of or in protest against the issuance of such license may do so at
the time of the hearing.
         (b)   The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date
of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after such hearing the
Governing Body shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of their
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of such
license. The Municipal Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Municipal Clerk a license issued or renewed by the commission, the Clerk
shall deliver the license to the licensee upon proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124(5) the fee is
payable to the Municipal Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the
Governing Body upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the Municipality.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
Municipality shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person,
firm, or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the Municipality in any sum which
exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the
Act to obtain such license.
(Neb. RS 53-132(4)) (`77 Code, § 10-1074 and 10-123)
§ 111.24 LICENSEES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspections to be made on the premises
of all retail and bottle club licensees. If it is found that any such licensee
is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, or
the regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission or is failing to
observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may
be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the licensee has been given an
opportunity to be heard in his or her defense by the City Council.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed in the absence of a
written request by the City Council to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail or bottle club premises located in
an area which is annexed to the municipality shall file a formal application
for a license, and while such application is pending, the licensee may continue
all license privileges until the original license expires, is canceled, or is
revoked. If such license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of such area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not
more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer, upon notice from the Commission, shall
cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the
municipality, one time between January 10 and January 30 of each year,
individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of automatic
renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the municipality, except
that Class C license renewal notices shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer by three or more residents of the municipality on or before February
10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a hearing to
determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council may
request a licensee to submit an application.
(`77 Code, § 10-108) (Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.26 CATERING LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a Class C, Class D, or Class I license issued under Neb.
RS 53-124(5) or a craft brewery license may obtain an annual catering license
by filing an application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12(1))
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the governing body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.25.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12(3))
   (C)   The governing body, with respect to catering licensees within the
Municipality's corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for
the remainder of the period for which the license is issued. Any person whose
catering license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12(4))
   (D)   The Municipality may impose an occupation tax on the business of any
person, firm, or corporation receiving a catering license and doing business
within the Municipality. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12(6)) (`77 Code, § 10-124) (Ord. 1997-O-033, passed 12-1-97)
§ 111.27 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) (`77 Code, § 10-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use such licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any municipal
ordinance, such owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as such licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) (`77 Code, § 10-110)
§ 111.29 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYER.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any municipal ordinance
by any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee,
if such act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge,
or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and such employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) (`77 Code, § 10-111)
§ 111.30 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the City Council stating that any retail or bottle club
licensee, subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council, has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act. Such complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule,
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof. The resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of appeal
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided by law.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.50 LOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, maintain, manage, or hold open
to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail any
alcoholic liquor within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for
aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their wives or children. This
prohibition shall not apply to any location within such distance when the
establishment has been licensed by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission at
least two continuous years and to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where the
selling of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if the
place of business was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935. No
alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the
premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university within
the municipality.
(Neb. RS 53-177) (`77 Code, § 10-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.51 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold at retail upon any premises which have any access which leads from such
premises to any other portion of the same building or structure used for
dwelling or lodging purposes, and which is permitted to be used or kept
accessible for use by the public.
   (B)   This provision shall not prevent any connection between such premises
and such other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) (`77 Code, § 10-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.52 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the municipal police
may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be
viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
(`77 Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.53 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption
on the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein.
   HOURS OF SALE
      Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
         Mondays through Saturdays
            Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
            On Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
         Sundays
            Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
            On Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      Beer and Wine
         Mondays through Saturdays
            Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
            On Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
         Sundays
            Off Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
            On Sale   6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale
or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(`77 Code, § 10-117) (Am. Ord. 2011-O-023, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 2016-O-006,
passed 2-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to alter statutory hours, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 111.54 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person on
credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered, provided that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a Class C license from
permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members,
or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the members or guests in
accordance with the bylaws of such club and provided further that nothing in
this section shall prevent any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license
from permitting checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests
residing in the hotel or eating at the restaurant and charged to the accounts
of such guests.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (`77 Code, § 10-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.55 SPIKING BEER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or for any licensee to sell or offer for
sale in this municipality any beer to which there has been added any alcohol or
to permit any person to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of
such person or licensee.
(Neb. RS 53-174) (`77 Code, § 10-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.56 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill,
in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or
any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor except in original packages. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and
not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) (`77 Code, § 10-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.57 MINOR'S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
(`77 Code, § 10-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.58 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells beer
for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity of five
or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the date of
the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser's name and address, and
the number of the purchaser's motor vehicle operator's license, state
identification card, or military identification, if such military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser's signature. Such record shall be on a form prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. The
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
    (B)   Licensees shall place a label bearing a keg identification number on
each keg at the time of retail sale. Any person who unlawfully tampers with,
alters, or removes the keg identification number from a beer container after
such container has been taken from the licensed premises pursuant to a retail
sale and before its return to such licensed premises or other place where
returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02 and 53-167.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
112.01   Operation
   
112.02   Violations
§ 112.01 OPERATION.
   The Mayor and City Council are hereby authorized to grant an exclusive
franchise for the operation of a community television system, pursuant to Neb.
RS 18-2201 through 18-2206, and as may be hereinafter amended. The Mayor and
City Council may further grant to a franchisee the right, privilege and
franchise to erect, construct, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across,
above, over and under the streets, alleys, and public ways now laid out or
dedicated and all extensions and additions thereto in the city for the
placement of poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other
television conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation
of a community antenna television system for the interception, sale,
transmission and distribution of television programs and other audio visual
electrical signals and the right to transmit the same to the inhabitants of the
city on such terms and conditions as may be set forth in a franchise agreement.
(`77 Code, § 10-401) (Ord. 320, passed 10-1-79)
§ 112.02 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
connect, tap into any existing service line, or hook up to any community
antenna television service line without having first contracted with the
operator of the community antenna television system for the reception of any
television program or other audio visual electrical signals.
   (B)   Every person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of an offense and, upon
conviction thereof, shall for each offense, be fined in any sum and may be
prosecuted for a separate continuing offense for each day that any television
program or other audio visual electrical signal is received in violation of
this chapter.
(`77 Code, § 10-403) (Ord. 320, passed 10-1-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: NATURAL GAS COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Rates; Filing fee
§ 113.01 RATES; FILING FEE.
   The city shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas companies
for a rate filing. The fee shall be $300.
(`77 Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 451, passed 11-2-87)
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
114.01   Permit; application
§ 114.01 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods and
services, and the protect the public by maintaining records of the products
sold and the persons and companies responsible for such sales, all peddlers and
hawkers shall, before doing business within the city, make application for and
be issued a permit. Application for said permit shall be made to the Municipal
Clerk/Treasurer and shall contain all the necessary information and documents
required for the protection of the residents of the city.
(`77 Code, § 10-201)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate peddlers and hawkers, see Neb. RS 17-134
CHAPTER 115: LOTTERY
Section
   
115.01   Sales outlet locations; approval required; qualification standards
   
115.02   Participation; restrictions
§ 115.01 SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS: APPROVAL REQUIRED: QUALIFICATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the governing body. The governing body shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or
corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location
solely on the basis of the qualification standards prescribed in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 53, Article 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of forfeited bond upon a charge of or
pleaded guilty for forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or cancelled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery
and Raffle Act, or the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing, and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the Act.
   (C)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every officer of
such corporation, and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
   (D)   The governing body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
(Neb. RS 9-642.01) (Ord. 2006-O-005, passed 2-13-06)
§ 115.02 PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
   (B)   The lottery operator, or his or her immediate family, whom the
governing body contracts to conduct its lottery shall be prohibited from
playing the lottery established and conducted by the governing body. The owner
or officer of the lottery sales outlet whom the governing body contracts to
conduct its lottery shall be prohibited from playing the lottery, and the
employees or agents of the city lottery sales outlet shall not play the lottery
when such employees or agents are actually working at such lottery or while on
duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a municipal
official, or the immediate family of such member or official, from playing in
the lottery established and conducted by the governing body, provided that such
person is 19 years of age or older.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean a person who
is related to the member, official, or operator by blood, marriage, or adoption
and resides in the same household of the member, official, or operator; or a
person who is claimed by the member, official, operator, or spouse of a member,
official or operator as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 9-646) (Ord. 2006-O-004, passed 2-13-06; Am. Ord. 2011-O-011, passed
6-6-11)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Radio interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage property of another
intentionally or recklessly, or intentionally or recklessly tamper with
property of another so as to endanger person or property, or intentionally or
maliciously cause another to suffer pecuniary loss by deception or threat,
provided that the value of the property involved is under $300.
(Neb. RS 28-519) (`77 Code, §§ 6-304, 6-319) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that he or she is not
licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or secretly remain in any building or
occupied structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that he or she is not
licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in any place as to which
notice against trespass is given by:
      (1)   Actual communication to the actor; or
      (2)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come
to the attention of intruders; or
      (3)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
(`77 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
(`77 Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use the
streets, sidewalks, or public grounds of the municipality for signs, signposts,
or the posting of handbills or advertisements without written permission of the
City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-140
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Curfew; duty of parent or guardian; defenses
   
131.06   Disturbing the peace
   
131.07   Unnecessary and loud noises
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the municipality by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, or using of obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places or which is otherwise indecent or disorderly
conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(`77 Code, § 6-318) (Am. Ord. 1995-O-031, passed 12-4-95; Am. Ord. 2001-O-04,
passed 2-5-01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick or
throw a football or to engage in any exercise or sport upon the municipal
streets and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent
the City Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public
places blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such
exercise and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate, excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS
17-142
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(`77 Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
(`77 Code, § 6-326) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 CURFEW; DUTY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN; DEFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to
loiter, idle, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any of the streets, roads,
alleys or parks of the municipality, or other places of public amusement or
recreation therein after the hour of 11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m.
of the following day on Sunday through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:30
a.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or any adult person
having the legal care, custody, or control of any minor under the age of 18
years to allow or permit such minor to loiter, wander, stroll, idle or play in
or about any of the places designated in division (A) of this section after the
hour of 11:00 p.m. and until the hour of 5:00 a.m. of the following day on
Sunday through Thursday, and after the hour of 12:30 a.m. and until the hour of
5:00 a.m. the following day on Friday and Saturday.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) that the
minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other adult person having the
legal care, custody, or control of such minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the legal care, custody, or control of such minor and
was using a direct route;
      (3)   Traveling to, from or during a school activity, provided he or she
follows the most direct route to, from or during such travel;
      (4)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (5)   Engaged in an employment activity, including but not limited to
newspaper delivery, and was using a direct route;
      (6)   Involved in an emergency;
      (7)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police officer about the minor’s presence;
      (8)   Attending an official school or religious activity or returning
home by a direct route from an official school or religious activity;
      (9)   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (10)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with the laws of the State of Nebraska.
(`77 Code, § 6-332) (Ord. 1994-O-013, passed 7-25-94; Am. Ord. 1995-O-011,
passed 4-3-95; Am. Ord. 2015-O-021, passed 7-6-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   General ordinance making authority, see Neb. RS 17-505
§ 131.06 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts by
force or violence against the municipality, or residents therein, or who shall
disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality. Any
person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) (`77 Code, § 6-317) (Ord. 2001-O-05, passed 2-5-01) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 131.07 UNNECESSARY AND LOUD NOISES.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOUD NOISES. Any loud, unusual or unnecessary noises, building, structure or
premises where unlawful or illegal acts are being committed. It shall be
unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any
loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others,
within the limits of the city. The following acts, among others, are declared
to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this article, but
the enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, street car or other vehicle on
any street or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the
creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or
harsh sound; and the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time. The use of any signaling device, except one
operated by hand or electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device
operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when
traffic is for any reason held up.
      (2)   Radios, recorders, compact discs or other electronic devices used
for sound reproduction and the like. The using, operating, or permitting to be
played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument, or other
machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at
any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the
person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine
or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of
any such set, instrument, CD, recorder, radio or device in such a manner as to
be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure or
vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
      (3)   Loud speakers; amplifiers. The using, operating or permitting to be
played, used, or operated of any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loud-speaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the
purpose of commercial adverting or attracting the attention of the public to
any building or structure.
      (4)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting
whistling, or singing on the public streets at any time or place so as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any office, or in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
      (5)   Animals. The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing
frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
persons in the vicinity.
      (6)   Defects in vehicles, mufflers exhaust, and the like. The use of any
automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such
manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other
noise. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any engine or motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(Ord. 2001-O-05, passed 2-5-01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to
that person to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid such
peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or municipality; or
   (B)   Securing such offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying such offender to the jail of the county.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   This section shall apply only to those actions taken to resist arrest
without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon. It shall be unlawful for any
person intentionally to prevent or attempt to prevent a peace officer, acting
under color of official authority, from effecting an arrest on such person or
on another by:
      (1)   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the
peace officer or another; or
      (2)   Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employing means which require substantial force to overcome
resistance to effecting the arrest;
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
the peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing credentials to the person whose arrest is
attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or threaten to use violence,
force, physical interference, or obstacle or intentionally to obstruct, impair,
or hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace by
a peace officer or judge acting under color of official authority, or a police
animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the peace officer's
official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) (`77 Code, §§ 6-301, 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty; or
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties; or
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person;
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or
stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
133.06   Littering
   
133.07   Raising or producing stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by minors
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to minors
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain tobacco
   
133.23   Minor in possession
   
133.24   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
   
133.25   Smoking prohibited
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Shooting highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.42   Removal and possession of highway signs, markers, or notices
   
133.43   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.60   Discharge of firearms
   
133.61   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up, or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
municipality.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §§
93.20 through
93.24
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720 and 28-1321
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(`77 Code, § 6-324) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to put any dead animal, carcass, or part
thereof or other filthy substance into any well, or into any spring, brook, or
branch of running water, of which use is made for domestic purposes.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
(`77 Code, § 6-323) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality is prohibited, provided that grass,
leaves, and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost
pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the municipality
may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   LITTER shall include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk; and
      (2)   WEEDS shall include but not be limited to bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (canabis sativa), and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) (`77 Code, § 6-328) (Am. Ord. 1992-O-005, passed 3-2-92; Am.
Ord. 1995-O-028, passed 8-7-95) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Weeds, see §
94.04
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority to regulate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 133.06 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for such purpose.
   (B)   LITTER as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. WASTE MATERIAL as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material's function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) (`77 Code, §§ 6-308, 6-322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect, continue, or keep up
any dam or other obstruction in any river or stream of water in the city and
thereby raise an artificial pond or produce stagnant waters which shall be
manifestly injurious to the public health and safety.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
10.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   Whoever, being a minor under the age of 19 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use vapor products or alternative nicotine products, or use tobacco in
any form whatever, in this city, shall be guilty of an offense. Any minor
charged with a violation of this section may be free from prosecution if he or
she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or persons selling or
giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, vapor products, alternative nicotine
products, or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-012, passed 4-6-15; Am. Ord. 2020-O-002,
passed 1-6-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigarettes or cigarette paper, vapor products, or alternative
nicotine products, to any minor under 19 years of age is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-012, passed 4-6-15; Am. Ord. 2020-O-002,
passed 1-6-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Any person under the age of 19 years who shall obtain cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes, or cigarette material, vapor products, or alternative nicotine
products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he or she is of the age
of 19 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-012, passed 4-6-15; Am. Ord. 2020-O-002,
passed 1-6-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
   Permitted employment for minors, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
§ 133.23 MINOR IN POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103 to
transport, possess knowingly, or have under his or her control, in any motor
vehicle, beer or other alcoholic liquor on any public street, alley, roadway,
or property owned by the State of Nebraska or any subdivision thereof or any
other place within the municipal limits.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Permitted employment for minors, see Neb. RS 53-168.06
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-180.02
§ 133.24 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person in the passenger area of a motor
vehicle to possess an open alcoholic beverage container while the motor vehicle
is located in a public parking area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-186, it is unlawful for any person
to consume an alcoholic beverage (a) in a public parking area or on any highway
in this municipality or (b) inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking
area or on any highway in this municipality.
      (3)   For purposes of this division:
         (a)   Alcoholic beverage means (i) beer, ale porter, stout, and other
similar fermented beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or
description containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume,
brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part, or from any substitute
therefor, (ii) wine of not less than one-half of one percent of alcohol by
volume, or (iii) distilled spirits which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
Alcoholic beverage does not include trace amounts not readily consumable as a
beverage;
         (b)   Highway means a road or street including the entire area within
the right-of-way;
         (c)   Open alcoholic beverage container means any bottle, can, or
other receptacle:
            1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
            2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
               b.   The contents of which are partially removed; and
         (d)   Passenger area means the area designed to seat the driver and
passengers while the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily
accessible to the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions,
including any compartments in such area. Passenger area does not include the
area behind the last upright seat of such motor vehicle if the area is not
normally occupied by the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not
equipped with a trunk.
(Neb. RS 60-6, 211.08)
(`77 Code, §§ 6-309, 6-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.25 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, employee of the city, or other
person to smoke in any facility or vehicle which is owned by the city.
   (B)   To smoke, or smoking, means the lighting of any cigarette, cigar, pipe
or other smoking material, or the possession of any lighted cigarette, cigar,
pipe or other smoking material, regardless of its composition.
   (C)   Any person who smokes in a public facility owned by the city or in a
vehicle owned by the city, shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction
shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
(Ord. 2009-O-005, passed 3-4-09)
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A MOBILE HOME is an abandoned vehicle if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
city. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the city shall be
issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that the
vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners stating
that the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30
days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. of this section to be removed from public property in this
city, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state
agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or
4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. of this section to be removed from public property in
this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city which shall
have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (F)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the city, shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3., or 4. or (A)(b)1., 2., or 3. of this
section.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
(Neb. RS 60-1903) (Ord. 2015-O-013, passed 4-6-15)
Statutory reference:
   Additional regulations, Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911
§ 133.41 SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or maliciously to shoot upon
the public highway and injure, deface, damage or destroy any signs, monuments,
road markers, traffic control or surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon the highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(1)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.42 REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS, OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic control, or traffic surveillance device placed
along a public street, road, or highway for traffic control, warning, or
informational purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to
possess such a sign or device which has been removed in violation of this
section.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130(3)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.43 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days. No
unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public
property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not apply to
a vehicle in an enclosed building, to a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is
necessary to the lawful operation of the business, or to a vehicle in an
appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner
by the municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of
this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person
violating this section shall be guilty of a offense.
(`77 Code, § 6-331) (Am. Ord. 305, passed 7-10-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.60 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the municipality, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the
persons so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
(`77 Code, § 6-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.61 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law, in
the discharge of his official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun,
BB gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the municipality.
(`77 Code, § 6-314) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Promoting gambling
   
134.04   Possession of a gambling device
   
134.05   Disorderly houses
   
134.06   Menacing threats
   
134.07   Nudity in public places prohibited
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any person who
performs, offers, or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual
penetration, as those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not
his or her spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of value, commits the
offense of prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) of this section is a person under 18 years of
age, such person shall be immune from prosecution for a prostitution offense
under this section and shall be subject to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-
248 and further disposition under the Nebraska Juvenile Code. A law enforcement
officer who takes a person under 18 years of age into custody under this
section shall immediately report an allegation of a violation of Neb RS 28-831
to the Department of Health and Human Services which shall commence an
investigation within 24 hours under the Child Protection and Family Safety Act.
(Neb. RS 28-801) (Ord. 2015-O-014, passed 4-6-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, 18 years of age or over, to perform or
procure or assist any other person to perform in a public place and where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members of the public:
   (A)   An act of sexual penetration as defined by Neb. RS 28-318(6);
   (B)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront or
alarm any person; or
   (C)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the same
or opposite sex.
(Neb. RS 28-806) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 PROMOTING GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Engage in bookmaking;
   (B)   Receive money in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme; or
   (C)   Knowingly participate in any unlawful gambling as a player by placing
a bet.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1101 through 28-1104
§ 134.04 POSSESSION OF A GAMBLING DEVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell, transport, place,
possess, or conduct, or negotiate any transaction affecting or designed to
affect ownership, custody, or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall
be used in the advancement of unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.05 DISORDERLY HOUSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISORDERLY HOUSE. Any room, house, building, structure or premises where
unlawful or illegal acts are being committed. It shall be unlawful for the
owner, lessee or proprietor of any room, house, building, structure or premises
to knowingly collect or permit to be collected therein persons who are engaging
in any unlawful act, or to knowingly make, cause, permit or suffer to be made
therein any loud or improper noise to the annoyance or disturbance of any
person or neighborhood.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an inmate of or visit or
frequent any disorderly house, as declared in division (A) above, with
knowledge of, and participating in the illegal activities occurring therein.
(Ord. 2001-O-04, passed 2-5-01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.06 MENACING THREATS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of
this municipality to assault or threaten another in a menacing manner or strike
or injure another.
(`77 Code, § 6-316) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.07 NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly or intentionally, in a
public place:
      (1)   Engage in sexual intercourse;
      (2)   Appear in a state of nudity; or
      (3)   Fondle the genitals of himself, herself or another person.
   (B)   NUDITY means the showing of the human male genital or female
genitalia, pubic hair or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering; the
showing of the female breast with less than a full opaque covering of any part
of the nipple; the exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum anal
region or pubic hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover over
the nipples and/or areola of the female breast, which device simulates and
gives the realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola.
   (C)   PUBLIC PLACES includes all outdoor places owned by or open to the
general public, and all buildings and enclosed places owned by or open to the
general public, including such places of entertainment, taverns, restaurants,
clubs, theaters, dance halls, banquet halls, party rooms or halls limited to
specific members, restricted to adults or to patrons invited to attend, whether
or not an admission charge is levied.
   (D)   The prohibition set forth in division (A)(3) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any child under ten years of age; or
      (2)   Any individual exposing a breast in the process of breastfeeding an
infant under two years of age.
   (E)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to intentionally expose his
or her genitals, pubic area, or buttocks while employed in providing any
service, product, or entertainment in any business or commercial establishment.
   (F)   It shall also be unlawful for anyone to aid, abet, assist or direct
another person to intentionally expose his or her genitals, pubic area, or
buttocks while employed in providing any service, product, or entertainment in
any business or commercial establishment.
   (G)   Any activities in violation of this section shall be deemed to be a
nuisance and may be abated and suppressed by injunctive or other equitable
relief as allowed by law.
(Ord. 2006-O-001, passed 1-9-06)
CHAPTER 135: PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM
Section
   
135.01   Definition of program
   
135.02   Eligibility
   
135.03   Application
   
135.04   Screening applicants
   
135.05   Provisions of plan and program
   
135.06   Denial; notification; administrative review
§ 135.01 DEFINITION OF PROGRAM.
   The pretrial diversion program offers persons charged with criminal offenses
or municipal violations an alternative to traditional criminal justice or
juvenile system proceedings by:
   (A)   Permitting participation of the accused only on a voluntary basis;
   (B)   Having access to counsel prior to an adjudication when a decision has
been made by the prosecutor that the offense will support criminal charges; and
   (C)   Resulting in the dismissal of charges or its equivalent, if the
individual successfully completes the diversion process.
(Ord. 2011-O-015, passed 7-11-11)
§ 135.02 ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Any person other than those charged with minor traffic violations are
eligible for a pretrial diversion program. An applicant may be determined not
eligible for pretrial diversion for the following reasons:
      (1)   Frequent other violations of city or county statutes or ordinances;
      (2)   Prior refusal to complete a pretrial diversion plan; and
      (3)   Special circumstances considering the arrest of violation by the
pretrial diversion applicant.
   (B)   If an applicant is found eligible for enrollment in the diversion
program, a plan shall be set up by the City Attorney with the aid of the Mayor,
City Council and Police Chief.
(Ord. 2011-O-015, passed 7-11-11)
§ 135.03 APPLICATION.
   Any person who meets the above requirements may apply for a pretrial
diversion plan by contacting the office of the Police Chief within ten days
after an arrest has been made. The Police Chief shall then set up an interview
with the applicant to determine eligibility and willingness to participate in
the program.
(Ord. 2011-O-015, passed 7-11-11)
§ 135.04 SCREENING APPLICANTS.
   The following shall be considered members of the screening program to
determine eligibility:
   (A)   Mayor;
   (B)   City Attorney; and
   (C)   Police Chief.
(Ord. 2011-O-015, passed 7-11-11)
§ 135.05 PROVISIONS OF PLAN AND PROGRAM.
   The pretrial diversion program shall provide the following:
   (A)   A maximum time limit for any defendant's participation in a diversion
program, beyond which no defendant shall be required or permitted to
participate. (This period shall be sufficient enough to effect a change in the
participants to deter them from criminal activity, but not so long as to
prejudice the prosecution of defense of the case should the participant be
returned to the ordinary course of prosecution.)
   (B)   After the plan is completed, the defendant may review the plan with
his or her counsel present, including the average program duration and the
possible outcome prior to making the decision to enter into the diversion
program.
   (C)   Upon completion of the program, the diverted case will be dismissed
or, if it has not been filed at that point, the diverted case will not be
filed.
   (D)   A provision of the plan will be that the participants shall be able to
withdraw at any time before the program is completed and be remanded to the
court process without prejudice to them during the ordinary course of
prosecution.
   (E)   No enrollment under this plan shall be conditioned on a plea of
guilty. This plan must take place prior to a plea of guilty being entered by
the applicant.
   (F)   Any person convicted of a violation of city ordinance of a criminal
nature other than a minor traffic violation shall be notified of the
availability of the pretrial diversion plan by the arresting officer and the
time limits prescribed by those who wish to enter into the program.
(Ord. 2011-O-015, passed 7-11-11)
§ 135.06 DENIAL; NOTIFICATION; ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   If the pretrial diversion applicant has been denied enrollment in the
diversion program, he or she shall be notified and at the same time notified
that he or she is entitled to an administrative review of the decision and
written reasons for denial. If the applicant requests administrative review and
written reasons for denial, an administrative hearing will be held within ten
days after written reasons for the decision have been given to the applicant.
(Ord. 2011-O-015, passed 7-11-11)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.04   Barricades and lights
   
150.05   Fences and walls
Moving of Buildings
   
150.20   Regulations
   
150.21   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.40   Definition
   
150.41   Prohibitions
   
150.42   Determination; notice
   
150.43   Hearing and appeal
   
150.44   Emergency
   
150.45   Special assessments
   
150.46   Permit
Building Inspector
   
150.60   Power and authority
   
150.61   Right of entry
   
150.62   Permit cards
   
150.63   Time of inspection
   
150.64   Appeal from decision
   
150.65   Plans, specifications, plats, and reports; municipal officials; duty
   
150.66   Inspection fees
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the
same to be done, shall file with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer an application
for a building permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be
furnished by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer for that purpose. Every such
application shall set forth the legal description of the land upon which the
construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or
occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the
owner, architect, and contractor, and such other information as may be
requested thereon. The application, plans, and specifications so filed with the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall be checked and examined by the City Council,
and if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter
and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the City Council shall authorize
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer to issue the applicant a permit. Whenever there
is a discrepancy between permit application procedures contained herein and
those contained in any building code adopted by reference, the provisions
contained herein shall govern. At the sole discretion of the City Council, the
city has the right to request a survey of the property upon which the
construction or relocation is to take place. Survey will be at the owner's
expense.
   (B)   Permit fee:
 
Estimated Cost of Construction Fee
Zero to $1,000                 Minimum fee: $20
Each additional $1,000         $2.50, up to a maximum of $250
 
(`77 Code, § 9-201) (Am. Ord. 299, passed 11-21-77; Am. Ord. 2000-O-017, passed
9-26-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
(`77 Code, § 9-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the municipality's jurisdiction, and the improvement is
$1,000 or more, a duplicate of such permit shall be issued to the County
Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743) (`77 Code, § 9-201.01)
§ 150.04 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the
construction, demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the
municipality to have during such work all excavations, open basements, building
materials, and debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by
warning lights at night. The failure, neglect, or refusal of such persons to
erect such guards shall constitute a violation of this section and the
municipal police or the Building Inspector shall stop all work until guards are
erected and maintained as required.
(`77 Code, § 9-401)
§ 150.05 FENCES AND WALLS.
   Fences and walls located in any district shall be subject to the following
height and location restrictions:
      Fences and walls which are under three feet shall be permitted on
residential lots.
   (A)   Fences and walls exceeding three feet in height shall require a fence
permit. No fence or wall exceeding three feet in height shall be erected
without first obtaining a fence permit. Every application for a fence permit
shall be on forms provided by the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall be accompanied
by a nonrefundable fee as set by the City Council. Application for fence permit
shall include a sketch of the lot, location of any buildings on the lot, the
proposed fence and sufficient dimensions to accurately locate these features.
The Building Inspector shall issue the fence permit if he or she finds that the
proposed fence complies with all the requirements of this section:
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed closer to the street than the front
property line. If a sidewalk is located within the front yard, any fence
constructed must be at least six inches from the sidewalk, side closest to the
residence.
      (2)   No fence erected in the area in which there is a required front
yard shall materially obstruct public view. Permitted types of fences shall
include split rail, chain link, or other similar material. No component of a
front yard fence shall exceed four feet in height.
      (3)   The height of a fence shall be determined by a measurement from the
ground beneath the fence. Swales and other earth depressions up to six feet
wide shall not be used when measuring the fences' height. Manmade earth beams,
terraces and retaining walls that elevate the fence shall be considered a part
of the fence. If a lot or premises is lower than an adjacent major street, then
the height of the fence shall be determined by a measurement from the street
grade at the 90 degree angle from the fence; provided, however, the total
vertical measurement from the ground beneath the fence to the top of the fence
shall not exceed 12 feet.
      (4)   On a side lot line common to two lots: a fence or wall shall not
exceed four feet in height from a point 25 feet inside the front lot line to
the front lot line.
      (5)   On a side lot line common to two lots: A fence or wall shall not
exceed six feet in height between a point 25 feet back from the front lot line
to a point at the rear lot line of the dwelling.
      (6)   On a rear lot line, other than corner lots: A fence or wall shall
not exceed six feet in height across the entire width of the lot.
      (7)   On a rear lot line on a corner lot: A fence or wall shall not
exceed six feet in height from a point 15 feet from lot line common to the side
street to the side lot line.
      (8)   On a rear lot line on a corner lot: A fence or wall shall not
exceed four feet in height from a point 15 feet inside of the lot line to the
lot line common to the side street.
      (9)   On the side yard common to the side street on a corner lot: A fence
or wall shall not exceed six feet in height and is to be placed at the same
setback as the property's accessory building or primary structure.
      (10)   All fences and walls shall be constructed of approved material and
shall be structurally sound and shall be straight and true.
      (11)   No fence shall be constructed or installed which is in excess of
six feet in height except that chain link fences around tennis courts may have
a maximum height of 12 feet.
      (12)   In commercial and industrial districts, maximum height of fences
shall be eight feet. When industry standard, for certain types of businesses
require fences of greater heights, the City Council, at its discretion, may
allow greater heights.
   (B)   All fences and walls existing upon the effective date of this section,
which do not meet the standards and provisions for fences and walls as provided
for here shall be altered to comply with these provisions within three years of
the effective date of this section. A variance may be granted in the manner
provided by ordinance to grant a time extension in specific instances for
compliance with the provisions of this section. Such variance shall only be
granted if the applicant demonstrates:
      (1)   That the granting of a time extension will not be detrimental to
persons or property in the neighborhood.
      (2)   That the granting of a time extension is not contrary to the intent
of this section.
      (3)   That the granting of a time extension will alleviate a hardship on
the applicant.
   (C)   Upon completion of fence, a final inspection shall be performed by the
Building Inspector.
   (D)   A new permit shall be required for reconstruction of existing fences.
(Ord. 2002-O-002, passed 2-5-02; Am. Ord. 2006-O-028, passed 9-11-06)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any
building or structure within the municipality without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer and shall include
the present and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed
route, the equipment to be used, and such other information as the City Council
may require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by
the County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the
moving of buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the
real estate upon which the building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk/
Treasurer shall refer the application to the municipal police for approval of
the proposed route over which the building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
municipal police, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall then issue the permit,
provided that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an
amount set by motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the
building without doing damage to any private or municipal property is filed
with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer prior to the granting of any permit. No
moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet wide or
less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet high or
less. In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or line
shall upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires, or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company's franchise. Whenever the moving
of any building necessitates interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes,
or wire belonging to the municipality, notice in writing of the time and route
of the building moving operation shall be given to the various municipal
officials in charge of the municipal utility departments who shall proceed in
behalf of the municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
(`77 Code, § 9-301) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142
   Vehicle size, weight, and load regulations, see Neb. RS 60-6,288 through 60-
6,299
§ 150.21 DEPOSIT.
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting
from the relocation and whether any municipal laws have been violated during
the operation. Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall return the corporate
surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the
basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in
a clean and sanitary condition, the City Council may apply the money deposited
for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the conditions. If the
expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than the amount of the
deposit set by the City Council, as required herein, the City Council may
recover such excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
(`77 Code, § 9-302)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.40 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term UNSAFE BUILDING as used in this subchapter is hereby defined
to mean and include any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure:
      (1)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
      (2)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair,
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
      (3)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is liable
to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of such
structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the municipality is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(Ord. 020, passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 2003-O-019, passed 6-16-03)
§ 150.41 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the municipality, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant,
or person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in
an unsafe condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is in an unsafe condition.
(Ord. 020, passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 2003-O-019, passed 6-16-03) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances and unsafe buildings, see Neb. RS
18-1720, 18-1722, and 18-1722.01
§ 150.42 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Fire Official, the Health
Official, or the governing body shall be of the opinion that any building or
structure in the municipality is an unsafe building, he or she shall file a
written statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer. The Clerk/
Treasurer shall thereupon cause the property to be posted accordingly, shall
file a copy of such determination in the office of the County Register of
Deeds, and shall serve written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the
occupant thereof, if any, by certified mail or by personal service.
   (B)   Such notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that such dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. Such notice
may be in the following terms:
   "To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
   "You are hereby notified that __________________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by
__________________________________________ . The cause for this decision is
________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
   "You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the municipality will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the governing body, acting as the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer within ten days
from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing."
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the governing body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
(Ord. 020, passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 2003-O-019, passed 6-16-03)
§ 150.43 HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Municipal Clerk/Treasurer request a hearing before the governing body, sitting
as the Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be
repaired or demolished. The governing body shall grant such hearing within ten
days from the date of receiving the request.
   (B)   A written notice of the governing body's decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If the governing
body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five days from the sending of the
decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If, after the five-day
period, the owner has not begun work, the governing body shall proceed to cause
such work to be done, provided that the property owner may appeal such decision
to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which proceedings the
decision of the governing body shall be stayed.
   (C)   Where the municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes
of Nebraska relating to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes
shall apply.
(Ord. 020, passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 2003-O-019, passed 6-16-03)
§ 150.44 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
(Ord. 020, passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 2003-O-019, passed 6-16-03)
§ 150.45 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the governing body, which is authorized to levy the cost as a
special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien in
the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments.
(Ord. 020, passed 11-6-00; Am. Ord. 2003-O-019, passed 6-16-03)
§ 150.46 PERMIT.
   Prior to the commencement of demolition by the city or its agents, a permit
will be obtained from the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality through
Nebraska Asbestos Control regulations. The permit will be obtained by
application and inspection must be performed by a Nebraska certified Asbestos
Inspector or by signed statement of homeowner attesting to the absence of
asbestos material. (Ord. 2003-O-019, passed 6-16-03)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.60 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be the municipal official who shall have
the duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein
prescribed. He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or
moved in the municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance with all
municipal ordinances. He or she shall have the power and authority to order, at
the direction of the City Council, all work stopped on any construction,
alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He
or she shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue permission to
continue any construction, alteration, or relocation when the City Council is
satisfied that no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one,
it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour. Such written
order may be served by any municipal police officer.
   (B)   In the event that the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the
Police Chief shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
(`77 Code, § 9-101)
§ 150.61 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
(`77 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.62 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit, and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on
the principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
§ 150.63 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the municipal code: foundation inspection shall be made
after trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection
shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and backing is in place
and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be
made after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be
unlawful for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point
indicated in each successive inspection without the written approval of the
Building Inspector.
(`77 Code, § 9-103)
§ 150.64 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   (A)   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this
chapter has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector, that the time
allowed for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short,
or that conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably
difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by this chapter and by
the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or the occupant may file a
notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or order of the Building
Inspector has been made. The City Council shall hear all appeals and shall have
the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or order of
the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final, subject only to any
remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. Applications for
review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons why the variance should
be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is evident that reasonable
safety and sanitation is assured and may include conditions not generally
specified by this code to achieve that end.
   (B)   A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the Building
Inspector and the applicant.
(`77 Code, § 9-104)
§ 150.65 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS, AND REPORTS; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   (A)   Except where specifically exempted by state law, a municipal official
charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or approving plans,
specifications, plats, and reports shall not accept or approve plans,
specifications, plats, or reports which have not been prepared in accordance
with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act.
(Neb. RS 81-3447)
   (B)   Except where specifically exempted by state law, a municipal official
charged with the duty or responsibility of accepting or approving plans,
specifications, geological maps, and reports shall not accept or approve plans,
specifications, geological maps, or reports which have not been prepared in
accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act.
(Neb. RS 81-3538)
(`77 Code, § 9-105)
§ 150.66 INSPECTION FEES.
   The following fees are charged for inspections.
 
Type of Inspections            Fee
Five required inspections      Minimum fee: $50
Re-inspections, per inspection $10
 
(`77 Code, § 9-201) (Am. Ord. 299, passed 11-21-77; Am. Ord. 2000-O-017, passed
9-26-00)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
   
151.01   Municipal limits
   
151.02   Original plats
   
151.03   Designation of extraterritorial jurisdiction
§ 151.01 MUNICIPAL LIMITS.
   All additions, lots, lands, subdivisions, and parcels of ground included
within the official municipal map, and plat on file at the office of the County
Register of Deeds, having been by act or ordinance of the City Council or by
law duly annexed to or made a part of this municipality or having been by the
act, authority, acquiescence, consent, platting, and dedication of their
respective owners, created either as the original townsite or as additions to
the municipality are hereby declared to be within the corporate limits of the
municipality. Lawfully constituted additions or changes in the municipal limits
shall be indicated upon such map and plat by the Municipal Engineer after such
addition or change has been completed in accordance with the ordinances of this
municipality and the laws of the State of Nebraska.
(`77 Code, § 11-101)
Statutory reference:
   Annexation of territory, see Neb. RS 17-405 through 17-412
§ 151.02 ORIGINAL PLATS.
   Each and all plats, lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, outlots, and
parcels of ground included within the corporate limits of the municipality, and
not vacated of record prior to the enactment of this chapter, including the
original plat of the municipality, are hereby accepted, approved, and confirmed
as valid, and each and all of said lots, blocks, additions, subdivisions, and
outlots as heretofore platted and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds, and not heretofore vacated, and all other parcels of ground, included
within said corporate limits, are hereby declared to be within said
municipality and an integral part thereof.
(`77 Code, § 11-102)
Statutory reference:
   Platting, see Neb. RS 17-415 through 17-426
§ 151.03 DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the
city is hereby designated as within the city's extraterritorial jurisdiction
for the purpose of exercising the powers and duties granted by Neb. RS 17-1002
and 17-1003, with respect to subdivisions and platting.
   (B)   The boundaries of the territory so designated shall be as shown on the
official zoning map.
(`77 Code, § 11-103) (Ord. 1994-O-025, passed 9-12-94)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Authority
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Jurisdiction
   
152.04   Applicability
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Severability
   
152.07   Procedures
   
152.08   Streets, alleys, sidewalks, driveways
   
152.09   Street, utility and drainage facilities
   
152.10   Additional improvements
   
152.11   Subdivision improvement procedure
   
152.12   Dedication of public land
   
152.13   Annexation and recording of plat
   
152.14   Variances
   
152.15   Public sites and open spaces
   
152.16   Amendments
   
152.17   Minor subdivision
§ 152.01 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are hereby adopted and enacted under authority of Neb. RS
19-916 through 19-922 and 17-1001 through 17-1003, and amendments thereto, and
comprise requirements, standards and specifications with respect to provisions
for the proper location and width of streets, building lines, open spaces,
safety, recreation; and for the manner in which streets will be graded and
improved; and the extent to which water, sewer and other utility services shall
be provided; and to provide for the approval of preliminary plats and final
plats and endorsement thereof by the city Planning Commission and by the Mayor
and City Council. No final plat of a subdivision shall be approved and accepted
by the City Council unless it conforms to the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to provide for the orderly development
of the city and its environs; to proscribe standards for the laying out of
subdivisions in harmony with the Comprehensive Plan; for the coordination of
streets and utilities within subdivisions with other existing or planned
streets and utilities; for coordination of subdivisions with other features of
the comprehensive plan to provide for adequate open space for traffic,
recreation, light and air; and for the distribution of population and traffic
in such a manner so as to create conditions favorable to health, safety,
convenience or prosperity, all in accordance with applicable state statutes.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.03 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the area of planning and
zoning jurisdiction as defined on the Official Zoning Map of the City of
Ravenna, Nebraska, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.04 APPLICABILITY.
   Any plat, hereafter made, for each subdivision or part thereof lying within
the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared for approval and recorded
as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein shall apply to the
subdivision of a lot, tract, parcel of land into two or more lots, tracts, or
other division of land for the purpose of sale or development, whether
immediate or future, including the resubdivision or replatting of land or lots,
except that the division of land when the smallest parcel created is more than
ten acres in area shall be exempt from these regulations. Further, the
regulations set forth by this chapter shall be minimum regulations which shall
apply uniformly throughout the jurisdiction of this chapter except as hereafter
provided.
   (A)   Each separate principal use/building within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be situated on a separate and single subdivided lot of record
unless otherwise provided in the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Ravenna,
Nebraska.
   (B)   No subdivision of land shall be permitted within the jurisdiction of
this chapter unless a plat is approved in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Further, no lot in a subdivision may be sold, transferred or
negotiated to sell, no permit to erect, alter, or repair any building upon land
in a subdivision may be issued, and no building may be erected in a subdivision
unless a final plat has been approved by the City Council and recorded with the
Buffalo County Register of Deeds.
   (C)   These regulations shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   To a subdivision of land whereby the smallest parcel created or
remaining is more than ten acres;
      (2)   The subdivision of burial lots in cemeteries;
      (3)   A change in the boundary between adjoining lands which does not
create an additional lot or does not result in a nonconformity of an existing
lot.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The present
tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the plural and
the plural number includes the singular.
   BLOCK. A tract or parcel of land bounded by public streets or lands,
streams, railroads, unplatted lands or a combination thereof.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line indicating the minimum horizontal distance
required between a building or structure and a street right-of-way line. In the
case of a cul-de-sac, the building line shall be measured around the curvature
of the street line.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person or persons designated by the governing body to
administer this chapter whether such person or persons by entitled Building
Official, Building Inspector, Administrative Official, or Zoning Administrator.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. That undivided land in a subdivision which may be jointly
owned by all property owners of the subdivision, for the benefit of the owners
of the individual building sites of said development.
   COMMON SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewage system in public ownership which
provides for the collection and treatment of domestic effluent in a central
sewage treatment plant which meets the minimum requirements of the Nebraska
Department of Environmental Quality for primary and secondary sewage treatment
and which does not include individual septic tanks or portable sewage treatment
facilities.
   COMMON WATER SYSTEM. A water system which provides for the supply, storage
and distribution of potable water on an uninterrupted basis which is in public
ownership.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long range development plan adopted by the City
Council.
   COVENANT. Written promise or pledge.
   CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels water under a bridge, street or
driveway.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and subdivider whereby
the subdivider guarantees to complete all improvements and terms for payment of
costs for same.
   EASEMENT. A grant by property owner to the public, a corporation or persons
of the use of a tract of land for a specific purpose.
   ENGINEER. One, licensed by the State of Nebraska, designated by the the City
Council to act for the city.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property abutting on one side of a street
measured along the dividing line between the property and the street.
   GREEN AREA. Same as common open space.
   HIKE/BIKE/PEDESTRIAN TRAIL. A recreational trail prohibiting all non-
emergency or public maintenance motorized vehicles.
   IMPROVEMENT. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutter, sidewalks, water
lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and drainage
facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related matters normally
associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one main building together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking required by this chapter and fronting
upon a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage on one
street only.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets. Through lots only allowed on arterial street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A tract of land described as an integral portion of a
subdivision plat which is properly recorded in the office of the Buffalo County
Clerk.
   MONUMENTS.  Permanent concrete or iron markers used to establish definitely
all lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary
line corners and points of change in street alignment.
   OUT LOT. Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is developed and which is to be excluded from the development of
the subdivision.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Off-street parking shall mean an area, enclosed
or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one automobile, together with a
driveway connecting the parking space with a street or alley and permitting
ingress and egress.
   PEDESTRIAN WAYS. A tract of land dedicated to public use, which cuts across
a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjoining streets and properties.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.  Special development of certain tracts of land, planned
and designed as a unit for one or more land uses under the regulations and
procedures contained in this chapter.
   PLANNING AREA. The statutory zoning jurisdiction of the City of Ravenna.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The appointed planning body designated by the City
Council.
   PLAT. Map, drawing, or chart upon which the developer's plan of subdivision
(preliminary) is presented to the City Council for approval and, after such
approval, to the appropriate County Clerk for recording.
   PLOT.  A parcel of ground.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk, or other ways in which the general
public or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether
improved or not.
   PUBLIC WORKS PLAN.  An improvement analysis, conducted and prepared by City
Engineer, delineating what necessary sewer, water, drainage, street, storm
water, floodplain, wellhead and easement improvements will be needed for all
phases of a subdivision.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way.
In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features
such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual lot
which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   SIDEWALK.  A walk consisting of a paved or cemented area for pedestrians;
usually beside a street or roadway but within the right-of-way.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare including avenues, which affords
principle means of access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owners, developers or agents of persons or corporations
affecting subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, building development, or, if
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes
RESUBDIVISION , and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the
process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered in Nebraska to practice surveying.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET or ROAD. The full width between property lines bounding
every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be used for
vehicular traffic and designated as follows:
      ALLEY. A dedicated public right-of-way, other than a street, which
provides only a secondary means of access to abutting property.
      ARTERIAL STREET. A street which provides for through traffic movement
between and around streets with direct access to abutting property, subject to
necessary control of entrances, exits, and curb use.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street which provides for traffic movement between
arterials and local streets, with direct access to abutting property.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end open
to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      LOCAL STREET. A street which provides direct access to abutting land and
local traffic movement, whether in business, industrial or residential land.
      MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
FRONTAGE STREET or SERVICE ROAD )
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the city in order to better locate and orient the area in question.
   WALKWAY. See SIDEWALK .
   ZONE or DISTRICT. A section of the zoning area for which uniform regulations
governing the use, height, area, size and intensity of the use of buildings,
land, and open spaces about buildings, are established.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to
be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
this chapter as a whole, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.07 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to the subdivision of any land, the
subdivider or subdivider's agent shall prepare a sketch plan and shall discuss
informally with the City Administrator the property proposed for subdivision,
with reference to these subdivision regulations and procedures, zoning
regulations and controls, and the city's comprehensive and major street plans.
   (B)   Plat submission requirements. The subdivider shall submit to the City
Clerk 11 copies of the preliminary plat and supplemental material specified,
with written application for conditional approval, at least ten days prior to
the regular meeting of the city Planning Commission at which the request will
be heard.
   (C)   Fees. Fees are as follows:
      (1)   Preliminary plat: $50 plus $1 per lot;
      (2)   Final plat: $100 plus $1 per lot;
      (3)   Vacate: $50;
      (4)   Rezone: $100.
   (D)   Scale and preliminary plat contents. Preliminary plats shall be a
scale of 1 inch to 100 feet, and shall be prepared with the following
information:
      (1)   Name, location, acreage, owner and designer of subdivision with
legal description as shown by land records;
      (2)   Present and proposed zoning;
      (3)   Date, north point and graphic scale;
      (4)   Location of property lines, roads, existing utilities with size of
lines, and other underground installations and easement;
      (5)   Names of adjoining properties or subdivisions;
      (6)   Proposed utility system, including water, sewer and paving;
      (7)   Dimensions and lot lines;
      (8)   Location of proposed drainage;
      (9)   Contours at two feet minimum intervals at 1 inch = 100 feet scale;
      (10)   Proposed improvements and grading concepts;
      (11)   Location of existing buildings;
      (12)   Proposed easements, dedications and reservations of land required.
   (E)   Notification of improvement schedule. Subdivider shall indicate by a
letter when improvements as required will be provided.
   (F)   Notification of County Planning Commission. The city shall notify the
Buffalo County Planning Commission of any proposed subdivision plat and provide
the Commission with all available materials on the proposed plat, when such
proposed plat lies partially or totally within the extraterritorial subdivision
jurisdiction being exercised by that municipality in such county. The
Commission shall be given four weeks to officially comment on the
appropriateness of the design and improvements proposed in the plat. The review
period shall run concurrently with subdivision review activities of the city
after the Commission receives all available material for a proposed subdivision
plat.
   (G)   Notification of School Board. At least ten days prior to the city
Planning Commission meeting at which the preliminary plat is to be considered
for approval, the city Planning Commission shall submit a copy of the proposal
to the School Board of each school district which the proposed development
affects, and shall notify the School Board of the meeting date. Copies of the
plat may be submitted to any other agency which may be affected.
   (H)   Approval or rejection. After review of the preliminary plat and
negotiations with the subdivider, the city Planning Commission shall reject or
conditionally approve the preliminary plat, within 30 days after the official
meeting at which the plat was considered.
   (I)   Approval is conditional. Approval of a preliminary plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat; it shall be deemed an expression of
approval or conditional approval of the submitted plat, as a guide for the
preparation of the final plat, which will be subject to further consideration
by the city Planning Commission and the City Council. Any conditional approval
of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year unless an
extension is granted by the city Planning Commission.
   (J)   Public works plan. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the city
Planning Commission and City Council, the approved preliminary plat will be
forwarded to City Engineer for preparation of a public works plan. Said public
works plan will outline the improvement needs, in conjunction with the city's
present utility, drainage and street system and tentative costs. The cost of
said public works plan shall be borne by the subdivider.
   (K)   Final plat submission requirements. Final plats, showing entire
concept, shall be submitted to the City Clerk within one year of approval of
the preliminary plat, unless an extension is granted by the city Planning
Commission. The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved
and to the requirements of all applicable ordinances and state statutes; and,
if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop
at the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements
of these regulations.
   (L)   Scale and final plat contents. One original mylar and five copies of
the final plat and other exhibits required for approval shall be submitted. The
final plat shall be drawn in ink on mylar and shall be at a scale of 1 inch to
100 feet or larger. The final plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Date, title, name and location of subdivision;
      (2)   Streets and street names, lots, setback lines, lot numbers, etc.;
      (3)   Graphic scale and north arrow;
      (4)   Monuments (ferrous) ½-inch diameter, minimum 24 inches minimum
length;
      (5)   Dimensions, angles and bearings, and complete legal description of
the property;
      (6)   Sufficient survey data to reproduce any line on the ground;
      (7)   Names of adjoining subdivisions;
      (8)   Location and dimensions of any easements;
      (9)   Purpose for which sites are dedicated or reserved, and the transfer
of ownership of the same;
      (10)   Certification by surveyor as to accuracy of survey and plat;
      (11)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding title
or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted;
      (12)   Certification recording the approval by the cityPlanning
Commission;
      (13)   Certification recording the approval by the City Council and the
acceptance of any dedications.
   (M)   Supplementary data required. The final plat shall be accompanied by:
public works plan of all required public improvements, approved by an Engineer.
   (N)   Professional assistance. The City Council or the city Planning
Commission may request such professional assistance as it deems necessary to
properly evaluate the plats submitted.
   (O)   Planning Commission recommendations. The city Planning Commission
shall reject or approve the final plat and have prepared a recommendation to
the City Council recommending rejection or approval. All reasons for
recommending rejection shall be clearly stated. Notification of approval or
rejection by the city Planning Commission or City Council shall be given the
subdivider within 60 days after submission of the final plat to the city
Planning Commission.
   (P)   Administrative subdivision. In the event that a proposed subdivision
does not involve the platting and dedication of streets, extension of utility
systems, change in subdivision class and type, change in zoning district,
change in surface drainage, and will not result in the creation of more than
three lots of record, the subdivider may apply for administrative subdivision
under the provisions of this section. The utilization of the administrative
subdivision does not relieve the subdivider of its obligation to comply with §
152.08: Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks and Driveways; and § 152.09: Utility and
Drainage Facilities. The procedure for such application will be as follows:
      (1)   Application will be made to the City Council and the City Council
may act or may at their option refer the application to the Planning
Commission. In the event it is referred to the Planning Commission, the
procedures outlined under the final plat provisions shall be followed.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit an original and 11 copies of the plat.
The original shall be drawn in ink on tracing cloth, mylar, or similar
material, and shall be at a scale of 1 inch to 100 feet or larger. The plat
shall contain the following:
         (a)   Date, title, name, and location of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and locations of abutting streets and lots identifying
street names and lot and block numbers;
         (c)   Identification of the new lot and block numbers and set back
lines;
         (d)   Graphic scale and true north point;
         (e)   Monuments;
         (f)   Dimensions, angles and bearings and complete legal description
of the property;
         (g)   Sufficient surveying data to reproduce any line on the ground;
         (h)   Location, dimensions, and purposes of any existing easements;
         (i)   Certification by surveyor certifying to the accuracy of the
survey and plat;
         (j)   Certification signed and acknowledged by all parties holding
title or having any title interest in the land subdivided and consenting to the
preparation and recording of the plat as submitted.
      (3)   The plat shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Protective covenants in form for recording if such are desired
by the subdivider;
         (b)   For subdivisions adjoining or touching the boundaries of the
city's corporate limits; a tract or area for which annexation proceedings have
been commenced; an approved subdivision which touches or adjoins the city's
corporate limits, a petition signed by the owner or owners requesting
annexation to the city may be required.
         (c)   Utility easements signed by the owner or owners to permit all
lots created access to all utilities available in the city, including but not
limited to, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water, electrical, telephone, and
cable television.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06; Am. Ord. 2012-O-014, passed 6-4-12)
§ 152.08 STREETS, ALLEYS, SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Streets. The arrangements, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall conform to the comprehensive development plan and
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets.
   (B)   Street extension. The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall
provide for the continuation of appropriate projection of streets and alleys
already existing in areas being subdivided. Where, at the determination of the
City Council, it is desirable to provide street access to adjoining properties,
proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundaries of such
properties. Where the City Council deems it necessary, such dead end streets
shall be provided with a temporary turnaround having a radius of at least 50
feet. The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but in no case shall a
street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in these
regulations for a street in its category.
   (C)   Dedication of right-of-way for new streets. The dedication of right-
of-way for new streets measured from lot line to lot line shall be as shown on
the comprehensive development plan. All streets classified as arterial streets
by the comprehensive development plan shall have all points of access approved
by the City Council. Marginal access streets may be required by the City
Council for subdivisions fronting on arterial streets.
   (D)   Dedication of right-of-way for existing streets. Subdivisions platted
along existing streets shall dedicate additional right-of-way if necessary to
meet the minimum street width requirements set forth in this chapter. The
entire minimum right-of-way width shall be dedicated where the subdivision is
on both sides of an existing street. When the subdivision is located on only
one side of an existing street, one-half of the required right-of-way width,
measured from the center line of the existing roadway, shall be dedicated.
   (E)   Intersections. Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at an
angle of 90 degrees. Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at
least 20 feet. When the smallest angle of street intersection is less than 75
degrees, the City Council may require curb radii of greater length. Wherever
necessary to permit the construction of a curb having a desirable radius
without reducing the sidewalk at a street corner to less than normal width, the
property line at such street corner shall be rounded or otherwise set back
sufficiently to permit such curb construction. No lot or other parcel of land
which abuts on and has access to either a collector or a minor street shall
have a service drive, curb cut, or other means of access to an arterial street
within 150 feet of the right-of-way of any street which intersects such
arterial street on the side on which such lot or parcel is located.
   (F)   Widths, grades and sight distance requirements. 
      (1)   Right-of-way widths, pavements widths, grades and sight distance
requirements shall be as follows:
TYPE R.O.W. PAVEMENT GRADE MINIMUM SIGHT DISTANCE ON CURVES
                                                              MINIMUM SIGHT
TYPE              R.O.W.            PAVEMENT          GRADE   DISTANCE ON
                                                              CURVES
Arterial street** *100 feet         48 feet           8%      350 feet
Marginal access
streets           40 feet           30 feet           8%      250 feet
(frontage)
Collector streets *66 feet          36 feet           8%      250 feet
Local streets     60 feet           36 feet           10% av. 150 feet
                                    12 feet
Alleys            20 feet           residential       No max. None
                                    20 feet           No max. None
                                    commercial
                  50 foot radius
                  (no fire
Cul-de-sac        hydrant); 55 foot 36 foot width and 10% av. 150 feet
streets           radius (fire      45 foot radius
                  hydrant at
                  center)
*   Streets in these classifications shall be designed and graded to the
full right-of-way widths stated.
**   Determined by state standards.
 
      (2)   The horizontal alignment on all street except in unusual cases as
determined by the vity Planning Commission shall as follows:
 
STREET TYPE       CENTERLINE RADII OF HORIZONTAL CURVES
Arterial streets  400 foot minimum
Collector streets 300 foot minimum
Local streets     200 foot minimum
 
   (G)   Marginal access streets (frontage).
      (1)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the city may require access streets, reverse frontage with
screen planting contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property
line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation of through arid local traffic.
      (2)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon or contains an existing
or proposed arterial street or highway or which traffic volumes and vehicular
speeds warrant special safety considerations, the city may require that
marginal access streets be provided in order that no lots front on such
existing or proposed arterial street or highway.
      (3)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railway right-of-way
or limited access highway right-of-way, the city may require a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way, at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes
in residential districts. Such distances shall also be determined with due
regard for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   (H)   Street jogs. Street jogs with center line offsets of less than 150
feet shall be prohibited. Cul-de-sacs, minor terminal or dead-end streets or
courts which are designed so as to have one end permanently closed shall not be
longer than 600 feet and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround
having a radius at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 50 feet.
   (I)   Street names. Proposed streets which are in alignment with other
already existing and named streets shall bear the names of such existing
streets. The name of a proposed street which is not in alignment with an
existing street shall not duplicate the name of any existing street,
irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place,
court, lane, road, pike, highway, parkway or similar suffix. Whenever a street
alignment changes direction more than 45 degrees without a return to the
original alignment within a distance of 500 feet, then the name of the street
shall be changed at the point of curvature. Whenever a cul-de-sac street serves
not more than three lots, the name of the intersecting street shall apply to
the cul-de-sac. To avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names of all
streets shall be approved by the designated City Engineer prior to such names
being assigned or used.
   (J)   Private streets and reserve strips. There shall be no private streets
platted within a subdivision. There shall be no reserve strips in a subdivision
except where their control is definitely vested in the city or county under
conditions approved by the Council as authorized herein.
   (K)   Street surfacing. The streets in the proposed subdivision shall be
paved, with Portland cement concrete and integral curbs.
   (L)   Blocks. Except in unusual circumstances, the maximum length of blocks
shall be 600 feet.
   (M)   Street name signs. Street name signs, of a type in use throughout the
city, shall be erected by the subdivider at all intersections.
   (N)   Alleys. 
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided to give access to the rear of all lots
used for commercial and industrial purposes. Minimum right-of-way width of an
alley shall be 20 feet. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment
shall be prohibited. Alley surfacing shall be gravel.
      (2)   Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate facilities at the dead-end, as
determined by the City Council. Alleys need not be provided in residential
areas where the subdivider produces evidence of easements which are
satisfactory to the City Council.
   (O)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided and shall be constructed of
Portland cement concrete. Sidewalk thickness shall be not less than four inches
and sidewalk width not less than four feet. Sidewalks shall be built within one
foot of property lines and shall be in compliance with standards of the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
   (P)   Driveways. Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10%. Driveways and
curb cuts shall be located not less than three feet from the side lot lines.
Curb cuts for straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be three feet
wider than the driveway pavement on each side.
   (Q)   Street and walkway lighting. The street lights shall be installed by
the city. Such lights shall be located at each street intersection.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.09 STREET, UTILITY AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Sewer, water, drainage facilities and street. 
      (1)   All sewer, water, drainage facilities and streets shall be designed
in accordance with City Engineer specifications. Drawings and specifications
shall be developed by City Engineer and constructed under city supervision.
      (2)   The cost of providing this engineering service and construction
will be the responsibility of the owner or developer of the tract to be
subdivided or by agreement with the city.
   (B)   Erosion control. The subdivider shall be required to provide for the
control for greater than one acre developed erosion of areas of the subdivision
which are disturbed in accordance with the NPDES Construction Site Stormwater
Permit.
   (C)   Electric, gas and telephone improvements.
      (1)   All water, sewer and drainage utilities shall be installed prior to
gas, electric or telephone service.
      (2)   Electric service and telephone service shall be provided within
each subdivision. Gas service may be required where reasonably accessible.
Whenever such facilities are reasonably accessible and available, they may be
required to be installed within the area prior to the approval of the final
plat. Telephone, electric, street lighting, and communications conductors may
be installed underground at the option of the City Council.
      (3)   Overhead secondary utility lines, where installed shall be located
at the rear of all lots.
      (4)   Whenever a sanitary sewer line and electric and/or telephone line
is each placed underground in the same utility easement, the following
provisions shall be applicable:
         (a)   The total easement width shall not be less than 15 feet; and
         (b)   The sanitary sewer line shall be installed within three feet of
the easement, and the electric and/or telephone line shall be installed within
three feet of the opposite side of the easement.
      (5)   Relocation of existing utilities are at the cost of the subdivider.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.10 ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Extensions to boundaries. The subdivider may be required to extend the
necessary improvements to the boundary of the proposed subdivision to serve
adjoining unsubdivided land, as determined by the City Council.
   (B)   Off-site extensions. If street or utilities are not available at the
boundary of a proposed subdivision, and if the Council finds the extensions
across undeveloped areas would not be warranted as a special assessment to the
intervening properties or as a municipal expense until some future time, the
subdivider may be required, prior to the approval of the final plat, to obtain
necessary easements or right-of-way and pay for such extensions. Such
improvements shall be available for connections by subdividers of adjoining
land.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.11 SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements guarantees. 
      (1)   The subdivider shall pay for all improvements required for the
subdivision.
      (2)   In lieu of requiring the payment of all improvements, the City
Council may enter into an agreement with the subdivider whereby the subdivider
shall guarantee to complete all improvements required by this chapter in a
manner satisfactory to the City Council. To secure this agreement, the
subdivider shall provide 50% percent of actual bid cost of project within seven
days of the city bid letting.
   (B)   Inspection and certification. The city or other authorized person
shall regularly inspect construction of required improvements for defects. Upon
completion of the improvements, the city or other authorized person shall file
with the City Council a statement either certifying that the improvements have
been completed in the specified manner or listing defects in those improvements
which do not meet the requirements of the approved improvement plans and
specifications.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.12 DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LAND.
   (A)   At the time of final plat approval by the City Council, the owners
shall be required to dedicate to the public use all streets, alleys, easements,
and buffer strips as required by the City Council and these regulations.
Acceptance of dedicated land shall be recorded in the minutes of the City
Council.
   (B)   Subdividers of commercial type subdivisions may be required to
dedicate land for off-street parking as determined necessary by the City
Council.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.13 ANNEXATION AND RECORDING OF PLAT.
   (A)   Subdivision annexation of adjoining or contiguous properties. All
subdivisions or additions laid out adjoining or contiguous to the corporate
limits may be included with the same and become a part of the municipality for
all purposes whatsoever.
(Neb. RS 19-916).
   (B)   Subdivision annexation: petition for annexation. Any subdivision in
which there are lands dedicated to the city or any subdivision serviced by
public utilities shall be annexed to the city. Before approval for the final
plat is given, the municipal body shall receive a petition for annexation from
the owners of the subdivided properties.
   (C)   Subdivision annexation: adoption plan by resolution. 
      (1)   The City Council desiring to annex land under the authority of this
section shall first adopt both a resolution stating that the city is
considering the annexation of the land and a plan for extending city services
to the land. The resolution shall state:
         (a)   The time, date and location of the public hearing required
below;
         (b)   A description of the boundaries of the land proposed for
annexation; and
         (c)   That the plan of the city for extension of city services to the
land proposed for annexation is available for inspection during regular
business hours in the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   The plan adopted by the City Council shall contain sufficient
detail to provide reasonable persons with a full and complete understanding of
the intentions of the city for extending city services to the land proposed for
annexation. The plan shall:
         (a)   State the estimated cost impact of providing the services to
such land;
         (b)   State the method by which the city plans to finance the
extension of services to the land and how any services already provided to the
land will be maintained;
         (c)   Include a timetable for extending service to the land proposed
for annexation; and
         (d)   Include a map drawn to scale clearly delineating the land
proposed for annexation, the current boundaries of the city, the proposed
boundaries of the city after annexation and the general land-use pattern in the
land proposed for annexation.
      (3)   A public hearings on the proposed annexation shall be held within
60 days following the adoption of the resolution to allow the City Council to
receive testimony from interested persons. The City Council may recess the
hearing, for good case, to a time and date specified at the hearing.
      (4)   A copy of the resolution providing for the public hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper or the city at least once not less than ten
days preceding the date of the public hearing. A map drawn to scale delineating
the land proposed for annexation shall be published with the resolution. A copy
of the resolution providing for the public hearing shall be sent by first-class
mail, following its passage, to the school board of any school district in the
land proposed for annexation.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06; Am. Ord. 2012-O-014, passed 6-4-12)
§ 152.14 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Granting of variances; conditions. The City Council may grant
variances from the provisions herein, but only after determining that:
      (1)   There are unique circumstances or conditions affecting the
property;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the reasonable and acceptable
development of the property in question;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the adjacent property.
   (B)   Recording of plat. In no case shall the requirement of filing and
recording a plat for subdivision be waived.
   (C)   Planned development. The Council may also grant reasonable variances,
if the subdivider concurrently submits an application for, and obtains approval
of, a planned development. The subdivider shall indicate where the plans vary
from the requirements of this chapter and shall present sufficient evidence to
support the request, indicating why the request will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.15 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Recreation standards. The Planning Commission may require that land be
dedicated for parks and playgrounds or other recreation purposes. Such areas
shall be shown and marked on both the preliminary and final plat, as "Dedicated
for Park and/or Recreation Purpose" The developer shall dedicate all such
recreation areas to the city as a condition of final subdivision plat approval.
The Commission may require that the recreation area be located at a suitable
place on the edge of the subdivision so that additional land may be added at
such time as the adjacent land is subdivided. In no case shall an area of less
than one acre be reserved for recreation purposes if it will be impractical or
impossible to secure additional lands in order to increase its area.
   (B)   Recreation sites. Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of a
character and location suitable for use as a playground, playfield, or for
other recreation purposes and shall be improved by the developer to the
standards required by the Planning Commission, which improvements shall be
included in the performance bond, A recreation site shall have a total frontage
on one or more streets of at least 100 feet, and no other dimension of the site
shall be less than 100 feet unless it is for a designated linear park. The
Planning Commission may refer any subdivision proposed to contain a dedicated
park to the Ravenna Park Board for a recommendation. All land to be reserved
for dedication to the City of Ravenna for park purposes shall have prior
approval of the City Council and shall be shown marked on the plat "Dedicated
for Park."
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.16 AMENDMENTS.
   Any provision herein from time to time may be amended, supplemented,
changed, modified or repealed by the governing body according to law; provided,
however, that such amendments, supplements, changes, modifications or repealed
provisions shall not become effective until after study and report and
recommendations of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2006-O-016, passed 5-8-06)
§ 152.17 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Scope. The minor subdivision procedure may be used for dividing one
lot into two parts, combining two or more lots (or parts of lots) into one
parcel, or a combination thereof. This definition shall apply only once to any
subdividing transaction or conveyance involving any specific lot or combination
of lots. Transactions or conveyances classified as minor subdivisions are
hereby deemed not to constitute "subdivision development" as defined by Neb. RS
19-916. The following conditions for a minor subdivision shall apply:
      (1)   All required improvements shall have been installed and be
available to the resulting parcel.
      (2)   No new dedication of public rights-of-way or easement can be
involved.
      (3)   Minor subdivisions shall comply with the zoning ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of lots and blocks.
      (4)   A survey of the lot(s) to be subdivided and abutting lots showing
all existing structures, building setbacks, and utility easements shall
accompany the request for minor subdivision approval.
   (B)   Application and approval procedure. All applications for minor
subdivisions shall be submitted to the City Clerk on the form provided by the
Clerk. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Legal description of the property;
      (2)   A survey attached to the application showing proposed lots and
abutting lots, and all existing structures, fences and building setbacks on
lots; and
      (3)   A fee as set forth in the fee schedule shall accompany the
application.
      (4)   Following review of the application, the Chief Building Official
will provide his or her recommendation to the Mayor, who will approve or
disapprove the application. In the event that the Mayor disapproves the
application, the applicant may appeal to the City Council by filing a written
notice appeal with the City Clerk within ten calendar days after receiving the
notice of disapproval.
      (5)   Following approval of a minor subdivision the subdivider must file
the survey and certificate of approval with the appropriate County Register of
Deeds. The subdivider shall submit a copy of the recorded document of such
filing to the City Clerk within 90 days of the date of approval or the document
shall be null and void. Consideration will be given to a written request from
the subdivider to the City Clerk to extend the filing date for 30 days.
      (6)   The City Clerk shall keep a complete and accurate record of all
minor subdivision approvals.
(Neb. RS 19-916) (Ord. 2017-O-011, passed 6-5-17)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive plan; adoption
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan of the city, as originally stated, together
with all amendments thereto and modifications thereof, is hereby adopted,
ratified and restated in its entirety as if set forth in full.
   (B)   A copy of the plan, in its entirety, shall be on file in the office of
the City Clerk/Treasurer for examination by the public at all times during the
regular business hours of such office.
(`77 Code, § 11-301) (Ord. 250, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 291, passed 6-27-77;
Am. Ord. 2006-O-015, passed 5-8-06; Am. Ord. 2007-O-019, passed 7-3-07; Am.
Ord. 2007-O-030, passed 9-10-07)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of regulations
   
154.02   Manufactured homes; standards
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Ordinance 250, as originally stated, together with all amendments
thereto and modifications thereof pertaining to the zoning and subdivision
regulations of the city, is hereby adopted, ratified, and restated in its
entirety. Such ordinance and modifications are made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   A copy of Ordinance 250, in its entirety, shall be on file in the
office of the City Clerk/ Treasurer for examination by the public at all times
during the regular business hours of said office.
(`77 Code, § 11-401) (Ord. 250, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 292, passed 6-27-77;
Am. Ord. 2004-O-002, passed 3-8-04; Am. Ord. 2004-O-003, passed 3-8-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-O-022, passed 7-10-06; Am. Ord. 2006-O-030, passed 12-4-06; Am. Ord.
2013-O-004, passed 3-4-13; Am. Ord. 2014-O-023, passed 11-3-14)
§ 154.02 MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational
Vehicles, the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located; and
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single family
construction;
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock; and
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.
         (a)    A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for
human habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch
or other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which
does not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles,
and which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 CFR 3280 et
seq., promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; or
         (b)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing
Units Act.
(`77 Code, § 11-402) (Ord. 1999-O-010, passed 9-13-99)
Statutory reference:
   Manufactured homes, see Neb. RS 19-902
CHAPTER 155: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact and Purpose
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Lands to which chapter applies
General Provisions
   
155.10   Definitions
   
155.11   Local Administrator responsibilities
   
155.12   Local Administrator additional responsibilities
   
155.13   Designation of current FHBM/FIRM
   
155.14   Permits required
   
155.15   Development permit applications review
   
155.16   All applications review
   
155.17   Subdivision applications
   
155.18   Water and sewage systems
   
155.19   Storage of material and equipment
   
155.20   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
155.21   Variance procedures
   
155.22   Nonconforming use
   
155.23   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.24   Interpretation
   
155.25   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
155.26   Severability
   
155.27   Appeal
   
155.28   Conflicting ordinances/resolutions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1022,
as amended, assigned the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
floodplain management regulations designed to protect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Therefore, the Mayor and City Council of the City of
Ravenna, Nebraska ordain as follows.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. Flood hazard areas of
the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of life or property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of these flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstruction in floodways causing increases
in flood heights and velocities;
      (2)   The occupancy of flood areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others which are inadequately elevated or otherwise protected from
flood damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter uses a reasonable
method of analyzing flood hazards which consists of a series of interrelated
steps.
      (1)   Selection of a base flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated and the depth of inundation. The
base flood selected for this chapter is representative of large floods which
are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to the chapter. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one
year, as delineated by applicable Flood Insurance Studies and the Federal
Emergency Management Administration's Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood
Boundary and Floodway Map, effective on November 26, 2010, or any subsequent
effective Flood Insurance Studies, Rate Maps, and Flood Boundary and Floodway
Maps issued after the effective date of this section and adopted by the city.
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles based upon a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood.
      (3)    Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point.
      (4)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
obstruction is permitted which would cause any increase in flood height.
      (5)   Delineation of floodway fringe, i.e., that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines but which still is subject to inundation by the
base flood.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07; Am. Ord. 2010-O-014, passed 11-1-10)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
155.02(A) by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard;
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.04 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), effective on November 26,
2010, as numbered an unnumbered A Zone and/or within the Overlay Districts FP
and FW established in this chapter. In all areas covered by this chapter, no
development shall be permitted except under a permit to develop granted by the
City Council or its duly designated representative under such safeguards and
restrictions as the City Council may reasonably impose for the promotion and
maintenance of the general welfare and health of the inhabitants of the
community as contained in the City Code.
(Ord. 2010-O-014, passed 11-1-10)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see FLOODING ).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. [For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)] includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.11 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The City Administrator hereby has these added responsibilities and is
authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and
all other ordinances/resolutions of the city now in force or hereafter adopted,
related to zoning, subdivision or building codes.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.12 LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The City Administrator shall be appointed to these additional
responsibilities by resolution of the governing body and his/her appointment
shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service. During temporary
absence or disability of the City Administrator, the governing body of the city
shall designate an acting administrator.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.13 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT FHBM/FIRM.
   The governing body of the city hereby designates the current Flood Hazard
Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate Map dated November 26, 2010, as the official
map to be used in determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07; Am. Ord. 2010-O-014, passed 11-1-10)
§ 155.14 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (A)   Required. Within special flood hazard areas on the official map,
separate floodplain development permits are required for all new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments, including the placement of
manufactured homes.
   (B)   Application. To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant
shall first file an application therefore in writing on a form furnished for
that purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
      (6)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations of
the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of floodproofed non-
residential structures, the elevation to which it shall be flood proofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
City Administrator.
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Administrator (i.e., require a statement from the applicant that they are
aware that elevating or floodproofing structures above the minimum levels will
result in premium reduction, especially in the case of non-residential flood
proofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the time of rating the
structure for the policy premium.)
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.15 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Administrator shall review all development permit applications to
determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably safe from
flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as required by
federal or state law.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.16 ALL APPLICATIONS REVIEW.
   The City Administrator in reviewing all applications for new construction,
substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured
homes and other development(s) (as defined in §
155.10) will do the following:
   (A)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood elevation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a Flood Insurance Study; and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met:
      (1)   Until a floodway has been designated: No development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the identified floodplain unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any location.
      (2)   Residential construction: New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division are satisfied.
Such certification shall be provided to the Local Administrator.
      (4)   All new construction and substantial improvements: That fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage.
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds;
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community's official map on
sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) above.
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community's official map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) above be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
above.
   (I)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community's official map either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.17 SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS.
   The governing body of the city shall review all subdivision applications and
other proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or
subdivisions) and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions), greater than five
acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory
flood elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.18 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.19 STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding buoyant,
flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal or plant life is
prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.20 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The governing body of the city will ensure that the flood-carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The
city will notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Office (Nebraska Department of Natural Resources) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such
notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Moreover, the city
will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in every way possible in
complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the
National Disaster Protection Act of 1973.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.21 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustments as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustments shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the City Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustments or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustments shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (E)(2) through (E)(5)
have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances/resolutions.
      (5)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.22 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance/resolution, but which is not
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the City Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.23 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall
prevail. All other ordinances/resolutions inconsistent with this chapter are
hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.24 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal, of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.25 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
floodplain district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of City of Ravenna or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.26 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.27 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the Mayor
the applicant may apply for such permit or variance directly to the Board of
Appeals.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.28 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES/RESOLUTIONS.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances/resolutions
or parts of ordinances/ resolutions. The governing body of the city may, from
time to time, amend this chapter to reflect any and all changes in the National
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973. The regulations of this chapter are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published
in Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations and the 1983 Nebraska Floodplain
Management Act.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500 and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2007-O-017, passed 5-7-07)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1977 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS References Code Section
Neb. RS References                        Code Section
9-642.01                                  115.01
9-646                                     115.02
10-101—10-143                           35.12
10-201—10-209                           35.12
10-301—10-305                           35.12
10-401—10-411                           35.12
10-606—10-614                           35.12
Chapter 11, Article 1                     32.61
11-101                                    33.31
11-103—11-118                           33.30
12-401—12-403                           32.06,
                                          91.01
12-402                                    91.01
12-403                                    91.02
12-1001—12-1004                         35.12
13-403                                    94.09
13-503(7)                                 35.01
13-504                                    35.33
13-505                                    35.33
13-506                                    35.34,
                                          35.37
13-507                                    35.34
13-508                                    35.35,
                                          35.63
13-509                                    35.63
13-509.01                                 35.32
13-509.02                                 35.32
13-511                                    35.37
13-518—13-522                           35.37
13-606                                    35.03
13-609                                    35.14
13-1802                                   32.62
13-2013.02                                51.13
13-2020                                   51.08
13-2020(4)                                51.09
13-2039                                   51.13
16-406                                    33.87
16-714                                    35.10
16-715                                    35.10
16-716                                    35.10
17-102                                    34.07
17-103                                    34.06
                                          30.21,
17-104                                    33.14,
                                          34.06
17-105                                    33.03,
                                          33.09
17-106                                    33.04
                                          30.10,
                                          31.01,
17-107                                    31.09,
                                          31.20,
                                          32.63,
                                          34.06
                                          30.03,
                                          30.10,
17-108.02                                 31.02,
                                          33.45,
                                          34.06
17-110—17-117                           30.10
17-110                                    30.10
17-111                                    30.10
17-112                                    30.10
17-113                                    30.10
17-114                                    30.10
17-117                                    30.10
17-118                                    32.62
                                          31.09,
17-121                                    32.04,
                                          93.01,
                                          93.02
17-124                                    32.60
17-129                                    131.01
17-134                                    114.01
17-135                                    111.02
17-140                                    130.05
                                          131.02,
17-142                                    131.03,
                                          150.20
17-147                                    32.40,
                                          32.42
17-148                                    30.21
                                          32.21,
17-149                                    Chapter 53,
                                          53.01,
                                          53.17
17-149.01                                 53.17
17-150                                    31.12
17-199                                    31.13
17-405                                    31.12
17-405—17-412                           151.01
17-415—17-426                           151.02
17-501                                    32.08
17-502                                    11.01
17-503                                    94.07
17-503.01                                 94.07
                                          10.99,
17-505                                    30.40,
                                          31.11,
                                          131.05
17-508                                    94.40
                                          94.40,
17-509                                    94.43,
                                          94.44
17-509—17-524                           94.40
17-509 et seq.                            94.26
17-510                                    94.40
17-511                                    94.40
17-512                                    94.40
17-522—17-524                           94.26
17-529.01                                 35.12
17-529.08                                 35.12
17-531                                    32.20,
                                          52.01
17-532                                    52.23
                                          32.20,
17-534                                    35.12,
                                          52.01
                                          32.20,
17-537                                    52.01,
                                          52.15
                                          32.20,
                                          50.06,
17-538                                    52.01,
                                          52.04,
                                          52.17
17-541                                    31.01,
                                          31.13
17-542                                    52.17,
                                          52.18
17-543                                    31.13
17-544                                    32.20,
                                          52.01
17-545                                    32.20,
                                          52.01
                                          Chapter 92,
17-549                                    92.05,
                                          92.20,
                                          92.21
                                          92.05—
                                          92.07,
17-550                                    93.24,
                                          94.03,
                                          131.02—
                                          131.04
17-554                                    93.25
                                          92.23,
                                          92.40—
17-556                                    92.42,
                                          131.01,
                                          133.60,
                                          133.61
                                          72.15,
                                          94.03,
                                          94.06,
                                          94.20,
17-557                                    94.47—
                                          94.51,
                                          94.54,
                                          131.02,
                                          131.03
17-557.01                                 94.03,
                                          94.06
17-558                                    94.42
17-559                                    94.42
17-563                                    94.04,
                                          133.05
17-567                                    94.40,
                                          94.45
17-567(1)                                 94.02
17-568                                    31.12
17-568.01                                 31.12,
                                          35.02
17-568.02                                 35.02
17-602                                    34.03
17-604                                    33.30
17-605                                    31.04
17-606—17-609                           31.05,
                                          31.06
17-608                                    35.11
17-609                                    35.11
17-610                                    31.08
17-611                                    33.46
17-612                                    33.45
                                          30.43,
17-613                                    30.45—
                                          30.47,
                                          35.02
                                          10.15,
17-614                                    30.43,
                                          30.44,
                                          30.48
17-615                                    30.46
17-616                                    30.44,
                                          33.09
17-701                                    35.30
17-702                                    35.62
17-706                                    35.36
17-708                                    35.05
17-710                                    35.07
17-711                                    35.14
17-714                                    35.04
17-715                                    35.04
17-718                                    32.40
17-720                                    35.10
17-905                                    35.12
17-908                                    35.12
17-911                                    35.12
17-919                                    31.12
17-920                                    131.04
                                          32.21,
17-925.01                                 50.06,
                                          53.01,
                                          53.03
17-925.01—17-925.0 4                    53.36
                                          91.01,
17-928                                    91.04,
                                          91.14
17-939                                    35.12
17-941                                    91.03
17-943                                    91.99
17-948—17-952                           90.01,
                                          90.20
17-949                                    90.21
17-952                                    32.04
                                          32.40,
17-953                                    90.61,
                                          90.62,
                                          94.08
17-953—17-955                           90.60
17-953.01                                 94.08
17-954                                    90.60,
                                          94.08
17-955                                    90.60
17-958                                    35.12
17-963                                    32.08
17-964                                    32.08,
                                          32.09
17-966                                    32.09
17-968                                    35.12
17-1001—17-1003                         152.01
17-1001                                   92.21,
                                          93.22
17-1002                                   151.03
17-1003                                   151.03
Chapter 18, Article 21 §§ 18-2101 et seq32.10
18-131                                    30.45
                                          30.40,
18-132                                    92.01,
                                          92.02
18-305—18-312                           33.46
18-412.01                                 35.02
18-501—18-512                           Chapter 53
18-503                                    50.06,
                                          53.03
18-1001—18-1006                         94.07
18-1202                                   35.12
18-1214                                   35.64
18-1216                                   35.06
18-1705                                   94.40
                                          10.99,
                                          92.21,
                                          93.20—
                                          93.22,
18-1720                                   93.24,
                                          93.25,
                                          130.03,
                                          133.01,
                                          133.05,
                                          150.41
18-1722                                   10.99
18-1736                                   72.30,
                                          72.31
                                          72.31,
18-1737                                   72.32,
                                          72.38
                                          72.30,
18-1738                                   72.33,
                                          72.39
18-1738—18-1738.0 1                     72.39
18-1738.01                                72.34,
                                          72.39
18-1738.02                                72.33,
                                          72.34
                                          72.31,
18-1739                                   72.32,
                                          72.35
18-1740                                   72.36
18-1741                                   72.37
18-1741.01                                72.30
18-1741.01(2)                             72.39
18-1741.04                                72.39
18-1741.06                                72.39
18-1743                                   150.03
18-1748                                   94.46
18-1751                                   94.40
18-1752                                   93.21
18-1755                                   94.08,
                                          94.10
18-1756                                   35.02
18-1801—18-1805                         35.12
18-2001—18-2004                         94.41
18-2003                                   94.41
18-2005                                   94.40
18-2201—18-2206                         112.01
18-2803(5)                                35.38
18-2804                                   35.38
18-2805                                   35.38
18-2806                                   35.38
18-2807                                   35.38
18-2808                                   35.38
19-550                                    Chapter 92
19-710                                    93.23
19-901—19-914                           32.03
19-901—19-915                           32.03
19-901—19-933                           32.02
19-902                                    154.02
19-907—19-910                           32.03
19-908                                    32.02,
                                          32.03
19-909                                    32.03
19-910                                    32.03
19-912                                    32.03,
                                          155.21
19-912.01                                 32.03
19-915                                    30.48
19-916                                    152.13,
                                          152.17
19-916—19-922                           152.01
19-929                                    32.02
19-1101                                   31.06
19-1102                                   31.04,
                                          31.06
19-1102 et seq.                           31.04
19-1103                                   31.04,
                                          31.06
19-1104                                   31.04
19-1301—19-1304                         35.08
19-1302                                   35.08
19-1305 et seq.                           Chapter 52
19-1309                                   35.60
19-1310                                   35.60
19-1311                                   35.60
19-1312                                   35.60
19-2401                                   94.40
19-2408—19-2415                         94.40
19-2416                                   94.40
19-2417—19-2419                         94.26
19-2427                                   94.40
19-2428—19-2431                         94.40
19-2701                                   52.15,
                                          53.15
19-2901—19-2909                         35.03
19-3001—19-3052                         34.01
19-3041                                   34.13
19-3101                                   30.02
19-3701                                   30.47
19-4301                                   94.27
20-113                                    96.01
20-132                                    90.21,
                                          90.61
20-203                                    95.25
20-318                                    96.03
20-319                                    96.04
20-320                                    96.05
20-321                                    96.06
20-322                                    96.07
20-301—20-322                           96.08
20-301—20-344                           96.01
20-304—20-317                           96.02
21-1316.01                                35.09,
                                          35.11
23-122                                    31.04
23-3513                                   35.12
25-1801                                   50.05
25-21,275                                 50.05
25-21,276                                 50.05
25-21,277                                 50.05
25-21,278                                 50.05
Chapter 28, Article 3                     111.22
Chapter 28, Article 4                     111.22
Chapter 28, Article 7                     111.22
Chapter 28, Article 8                     111.22
Chapter 28, Article 10                    111.22
Chapter 28, Article 11                    111.22
Chapter 28, Article 12                    111.22
28-318                                    134.01
28-318(6)                                 134.02
28-401                                    96.02
28-515.02                                 50.04
28-519                                    91.13,
                                          130.01
28-520                                    95.25,
                                          130.02
28-521                                    95.25,
                                          130.02
28-523                                    90.02,
                                          133.06
28-609                                    132.01
28-610                                    132.02
28-801                                    134.01
28-806                                    134.02
28-830                                    134.01
28-831                                    134.01
28-903                                    132.03
28-904                                    132.04
28-906                                    132.05
28-907                                    132.07
28-908                                    31.11,
                                          132.06
28-1101—28-1104                         134.03
28-1107                                   134.04
28-1213                                   92.25
28-1229 et seq.                           92.23
28-1233(3)                                92.23,
                                          92.25
28-1235                                   92.24
28-1241                                   92.40
28-1241(7)                                92.41
28-1244                                   92.41
28-1245                                   92.41
28-1246                                   92.43
28-1247                                   92.41,
                                          92.43
28-1249                                   92.43
28-1303                                   133.07
28-1304                                   133.03
                                          93.20,
                                          93.24,
28-1321                                   93.25,
                                          130.03,
                                          133.01
28-1322                                   131.06
28-1418                                   133.20
28-1419                                   133.21
28-1420—28-1429                         110.02
28-1420                                   110.01
28-1421                                   110.01
28-1422                                   110.02
28-1423                                   110.03
28-1424                                   110.04
28-1425                                   110.04,
                                          110.07
28-1426                                   110.05
28-1427                                   133.22
28-1428                                   110.06
28-1429                                   110.07
29-215                                    32.62
29-422                                    70.07
29-424                                    70.07
30-3201                                   32.08
31-1001—31-1022                         155.01
Chapter 32                                34.01
32-109                                    30.10
32-110                                    34.03
32-115                                    34.03
32-401                                    34.01
32-403                                    34.01
32-404                                    34.01,
                                          34.05
32-405                                    34.04
                                          30.10,
32-533                                    30.20,
                                          34.06
32-554                                    34.06,
                                          34.07
32-556                                    34.01
32-557                                    34.08
32-558                                    34.13
32-559                                    34.04
32-560                                    30.01,
                                          30.02
32-561                                    30.01
32-567—32-572                           30.01
32-568(4)                                 30.01
32-569                                    30.01
32-603                                    30.03,
                                          30.10
32-604                                    30.03,
                                          30.10
32-604(6)                                 30.03
32-606                                    34.09
32-607                                    34.11,
                                          34.14
32-608                                    34.09
32-616—32-618                           34.11
32-621                                    34.11
32-626(1)                                 34.11
32-626(2)                                 34.14
32-626(3)                                 34.14
32-628                                    34.11
32-628—32-631                           35.61
32-629                                    34.11,
                                          34.15
32-630                                    34.11,
                                          34.15
32-801—32-822                           34.01
32-802                                    34.02,
                                          35.61
32-811                                    34.10
32-952—32-959                           34.04
32-1033                                   34.13
32-1201—32-1208                         34.01
32-1301                                   34.15
32-1301—32-1309                         34.15
32-1302                                   34.15
32-1303                                   34.15
32-1304                                   34.15
32-1305                                   34.15
32-1306                                   34.15
32-1307                                   34.15
32-1308                                   30.01,
                                          34.15
32-1309                                   34.15
32-1525                                   34.12
33-139.01                                 32.42
33-141—33-143                           31.04
35-101 et seq.                            32.42
35-102                                    31.11,
                                          32.42
35-108                                    32.42
39-301                                    131.03
39-302                                    131.03
39-307                                    133.04
39-835—39-842.01                        35.12
39-2512                                   31.08
43-248                                    134.01
44-4301—44-4339                         33.60
44-4303                                   33.60
45-601—45-622                           35.13
45-623                                    35.13
46-1212                                   94.11
48-1503                                   35.02
49-801(16)                                10.05
49-1499.03—49-14,1 03                   33.46
49-14,103.01                              33.46
49-14,103.02                              33.46
49-14,103.03                              33.46
49-14,103.04                              33.46
49-14,103.05                              33.46
49-14,103.06                              33.46
51-201                                    35.61,
                                          90.40
51-201—51-219                           90.40,
                                          90.41
51-201.01                                 90.45
51-202                                    32.01
51-204                                    32.01
51-205                                    90.41
51-206                                    90.44
51-207                                    90.41
51-209                                    90.40
51-210                                    90.42
                                          90.41,
51-211                                    90.42,
                                          90.45,
                                          90.46
51-212                                    90.45
51-213                                    90.47
51-214                                    90.48
51-215                                    90.49
51-216                                    90.43
51-501                                    35.61
53-103                                    111.01,
                                          133.23
53-116.01                                 111.24
53-118                                    111.52
53-124                                    111.23
53-124(5)                                 111.23,
                                          111.25
53-124(5)(C)                              111.53
53-124(5)(H)                              111.53
53-124.12                                 111.25
53-124.12(1)                              111.25
53-124.12(3)                              111.25
53-124.12(4)                              111.25
53-124.12(6)                              111.25
53-125                                    111.22
53-131                                    111.23
53-131(2)                                 111.23
53-132(4)                                 111.23
53-133                                    111.23
53-134                                    111.23
                                          111.23,
53-134.03                                 111.52,
                                          111.57
53-134.04                                 111.30
53-135                                    111.25
53-135.01                                 111.23,
                                          111.25
53-148                                    111.27
53-167.02                                 111.58
53-167.03                                 111.58
                                          111.20,
53-168.06                                 133.22,
                                          133.23
53-174                                    111.55
53-175                                    111.21
53-177                                    111.50
53-178                                    111.51
53-179                                    111.53
53-180                                    111.02
53-180.02                                 133.23
53-180.05                                 133.22
53-183                                    111.54
53-184                                    111.56
53-186                                    133.24
53-186(1)                                 111.03
53-186(2)                                 111.03,
                                          133.24
53-186.01                                 111.03
53-194.03                                 111.21
53-1,101                                  111.28
53-1,102                                  111.29
53-1,121                                  111.04
Chapter 53, Article 1                     115.01
Chapter 60, Article 3                     70.09
Chapter 60, Article 4                     70.09
Chapter 60, Article 6                     70.01
60-119.01                                 70.13
60-169                                    133.40
60-302                                    70.09
60-311                                    70.09
60-311.14                                 72.31,
                                          72.32
60-320                                    70.09
60-320.01                                 70.09
60-321                                    70.09
60-323                                    70.09
60-329—60-339                           35.64
60-376                                    133.40
60-606—60-676                           70.01
60-624                                    70.12 ,
                                          70.13
60-658.01                                 71.08
                                          Chapters
                                          70,
60-680                                    71 and
                                          72;
                                          71.04
60-681                                    71.01
60-682.01                                 71.08
60-683                                    Chapter 70
60-1902                                   133.40
60-1903                                   133.40
60-1904                                   133.40
60-1907                                   133.40
60-1908                                   133.40
60-1911                                   133.40
60-4,186                                  70.09
60-6,114                                  72.16
60-6,119                                  70.11,
                                          71.06
60-6,130                                  70.11
60-6,130(1)                               133.41
60-6,130(3)                               133.42
60-6,134.01                               71.08
60-6,142                                  71.12
60-6,146—60-6,154                       71.08
60-6,164—60-6,168                       Chapter 72
60-6,165                                  72.51
60-6,166                                  72.07,
                                          72.09
60-6,167                                  72.02,
                                          72.03
60-6,185                                  71.25
60-6,186                                  71.25
60-6,190                                  71.25
60-6,211.08                               133.24
60-6,219                                  70.10
60-6,220                                  70.10
60-6,224                                  70.10
60-6,235                                  70.10
60-6,244                                  70.10
60-6,250                                  94.52
60-6,267                                  71.10
60-6,268                                  71.10
60-6,278—60-6,282                       71.13
60-6,285                                  70.10
60-6,288—60-6,299                       150.20
60-6,288(2)(j)                            94.52
60-6,294(10)                              94.52
60-6,315                                  71.12
60-6,316                                  71.11
60-6,317                                  71.12
60-6,318                                  71.12
60-6,355                                  70.12
60-6,356                                  70.12
64-118                                    11.01
70-624.04                                 33.46
70-1601                                   50.01
70-1601—70-1615                         50.04
70-1602 et seq.                           50.03
71-605                                    91.07
71-1557                                   154.02
71-1637                                   35.61
71-4603                                   133.40
73-101 et seq.                            35.02
76-704—76-724                           90.42
76-2,110                                  152.09
77-1601                                   35.63
77-1601.02                                35.63
77-1606                                   35.61,
                                          35.63
77-2201—77-2215                         35.14
77-2202                                   31.05
77-2304                                   35.10
77-2337                                   35.08,
                                          35.11
77-2341                                   35.08,
                                          35.11
77-2341(1)                                35.11
77-2362                                   35.09
77-2362—77-2364                         35.09
77-2366                                   35.09,
                                          35.10
77-2386—77-23,106                       35.09
                                          35.60—
                                          35.62,
                                          90.01,
77-3442                                   90.20,
                                          90.40,
                                          90.60,
                                          91.01
77-3442—77-3444                         35.61
77-3443                                   35.61
77-3444                                   34.04,
                                          35.61
81-145—81-162                           35.02
81-502                                    92.02
81-506                                    31.11,
                                          32.49
81-512                                    31.11,
                                          32.46
81-520.01                                 92.07
81-829.65                                 32.62
81-1438                                   31.01
81-1438—81-1446                         32.61
81-1444                                   32.61
81-2005                                   Chapter 70
81-3401—81-3455                         31.12
81-3423                                   94.11
81-3445                                   94.11
81-3447                                   150.65
81-3449                                   94.11
81-3449—81-3453                         94.11
81-3453                                   94.11
81-3538                                   150.65
84-712                                    31.05,
                                          33.16
84-712 et seq.                            31.04
84-712.01                                 31.05
84-712.04                                 33.16
84-712.05                                 33.16
84-1201—84-1227                         31.04
84-1408                                   33.02
                                          33.05,
84-1408—84-1414                         33.06,
                                          33.12
84-1409                                   33.02,
                                          33.05
84-1409(1)                                33.01
84-1409(2)                                33.01
84-1410                                   33.06
                                          33.02,
84-1411                                   33.04,
                                          33.05
84-1411(3)                                33.06
84-1411(4)                                33.08,
                                          33.11
84-1412                                   33.09,
                                          33.12
84-1413                                   33.02
84-1413(1)                                33.09
84-1413(2)                                33.09
84-1413(3)                                33.09
84-1413(4)                                33.09
84-1413(5)                                33.09
                                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1977 CODE
1977 Code 2004 Code
1977 Code   2004 Code
1-101       30.10
1-102       30.22
1-103       30.20
1-104       30.21
1-105       30.01
1-106       30.01
1-107       30.03
1-201       31.01
1-202       31.02
1-202.01    31.03
1-203       31.04
1-204       31.05
1-205       31.06
1-206       31.06
1-207       31.08
1-208       31.09
1-209       31.10
1-210       31.11
1-211       31.12
1-212       31.13
1-213       31.13
1-214       31.13
1-215       31.13
1-216       31.18
1-217       31.16
1-218       31.17
1-220       31.07
1-301       33.30
1-302       33.31
1-401       11.01
1-501       33.01
1-502       33.01
1-503       33.02
1-504       33.06
1-505       33.08
1-506       33.09
1-507       33.10
1-508       33.11
1-509       33.12
1-511       33.13
1-512       33.14
1-513       30.21,
            33.15
1-514       33.03
1-515       33.04
1-516       33.05
1-601       30.40
1-601.01    30.41
1-602       30.42
1-603       30.43
1-604       30.43
1-605       30.44
1-606       30.45
1-607       30.46
1-608       30.47
1-609       30.48
1-701       34.01
1-703       34.10
1-708       34.09
1-709       34.02
1-710       34.04
1-713       34.03
1-715       34.11
1-716       34.15
1-717       34.06
1-718       34.12
1-801       35.30
1-802       35.33
1-803       35.34
1-804       35.35
1-804.01    35.32
1-805       35.31
1-806       35.36
1-807       35.62
1-808       35.05
1-809       35.02
1-810       35.03
1-811       35.04
1-812       35.14
1-813       35.07
1-814       35.08
1-816       35.09
1-816.01    35.10
1-817       35.11
1-818       35.12
1-819       35.64
1-820       35.06
1-821       35.63
1-823       35.60
1-824       35.65
1-901       33.45
1-902       33.46
1-1101      33.60
2-201       32.01
2-202       32.02
2-203       32.04
2-204       32.05
2-205       32.06
2-206       32.07
2-207       32.07
2-208       32.07
2-209       32.07
2-210       32.07
2-211       32.07
2-212       32.07
2-213       32.08
2-214       32.08
2-215       32.08
2-216       32.10
3-101       32.20,
            52.01
3-102       52.02
3-103       52.15
3-104       52.16
3-105       52.17
3-106       52.17
3-107       52.18
3-109       52.03
3-110       52.03
3-111       52.04
3-112       52.19
3-113       52.20
3-114       52.21
3-115       52.22
3-116       52.23
3-117       52.16
3-118       52.24
3-119       52.25
3-120       52.05
3-121       52.26
3-124       52.27
3-125       52.28
3-201       32.21,
            53.01
3-202       53.02
3-203       53.15
3-204       52.16
3-205       53.17
3-206       52.16
3-207       53.18
3-208       53.19
3-209       53.20
3-210       53.35—
            53.39
3-211       53.03
3-212       53.21
3-213       53.22
3-214       53.23
3-215       53.24
3-216       53.25
3-217       53.03
3-301       32.40,
            32.43
3-302       32.42
3-303       32.44
3-304       32.45
3-305       32.45
3-309       32.48
3-310       32.49
3-314       32.47
3-401       32.60
3-402       32.62
3-403       32.63
3-501       90.01
3-502       90.02
3-601       90.20
3-602       90.21
3-603       90.22
3-604       90.23
3-701       90.40,
            90.41
3-703       90.41
3-705       90.50
3-706       90.45
3-801       91.01
3-802       91.02
3-803       91.03
3-804       91.04
3-805       91.05
3-806       91.06
3-807       91.07
3-808       91.08
3-809       91.09
3-810       91.10
3-811       91.11
3-812       91.13
3-902       51.01
3-903       51.02
3-904       51.03
3-905       51.04
3-906       51.05
3-907       51.06
3-908       51.07
3-909       51.08
3-910       51.09
3-911       51.10
3-912       51.11
3-913       51.12
3-914       51.13
3-915       51.14
3-916       51.13
3-917       51.15
3-918       51.16
3-919       51.08
3-1001      90.60
3-1002      90.62
3-1101      50.03
3-1102      50.01
4-101       93.01
4-102       93.02
4-104       93.03
4-301       93.20
4-302       93.20
4-303       93.21
4-304       93.22
4-305       93.23
4-307       93.24
5-101       70.01
5-103       70.09
5-104       70.09
5-105       71.25
5-106       71.25
5-107       71.27
5-109       71.08,
            71.26
5-110       71.28
5-111       70.10
5-201       71.01
5-202       71.03
5-203       71.04
5-205       71.05
5-206       71.06
5-207       71.07
5-208       70.11
5-209       71.09
5-308       70.02
5-309       70.03
5-310       70.04
5-311       70.07
5-312       70.08
5-314       71.10
5-315       71.11
5-316       71.12
5-317       71.13
5-402       72.02
5-403       72.03
5-404       72.04
5-405       72.05
5-406       72.05,
            72.06
5-407       72.07,
            72.08
5-408       72.09
5-409       72.10
5-410       72.11
5-411       72.11
5-412       72.12
5-413       72.31
5-413.01    72.32
5-413.02    72.30
5-413.03    72.33
5-413.04    72.34
5-413.05    72.35
5-413.06    72.36
5-413.07    72.37
5-413.08    72.38
5-413.09    72.39
5-414       72.14
5-415       72.14
5-417       72.51
5-501       72.15
5-503       72.15
5-504       72.15
5-505       72.15
5-506       72.15
5-507       72.15
5-508       72.15
5-509       72.15
6-301       132.05
6-302       132.05
6-303       130.02
6-304       130.01
6-305       130.04
6-306       92.09
6-307       92.10
6-308       133.06
6-309       133.24
6-310       133.24
6-312       133.60
6-314       133.61
6-315       92.41
6-316       134.06
6-317       131.06
6-318       131.01
6-319       130.01
6-322       133.06
6-323       133.04
6-324       133.02
6-325       131.03
6-326       131.04
6-328       133.05
6-330       133.40
6-331       133.43
6-332       131.05
7-201       92.04
7-202       92.05
7-203       92.07
7-204       92.05
7-205       92.05
7-208       92.08
7-301       92.20,
            92.21
7-401       92.25
7-402       92.22
7-403       92.23
7-404       92.24
8-101       94.01
8-102       94.02
8-103       94.03
8-104       94.07
8-105       94.03
8-108       94.10
8-109       94.09
8-152–8-1532.03
8-201       94.20
8-202       94.21
8-204       94.26
8-301       94.44
8-302       94.43
8-304       94.47
8-305       94.48
8-306       94.49
8-307       94.50
8-308       94.51
8-309       94.53
8-401       94.45
9-101       150.60
9-102       150.61
9-103       150.63
9-104       150.64
9-105       150.65
9-201       150.01,
            150.66
9-201.01    150.03
9-202       150.02
9-301       150.20
9-302       150.21
9-401       150.04
10-101      111.01
10-102      111.20
10-103      111.50
10-104      111.51
10-105      111.27
10-106      111.22
10-108      111.25
10-110      111.28
10-111      111.29
10-112      111.02
10-113      111.54
10-114      111.55
10-115      111.56
10-116      111.57
10-117      111.53
10-118      111.52
10-121      111.20,
            111.21
10-123      111.23
10-124      111.25
10-201      114.01
10-401      112.01
10-403      112.02
10-601      113.01
10-1074     111.23
11-101      151.01
11-102      151.02
11-103      151.03
11-301      153.01
11-401      154.01
11-402      154.02
12-101      96.01
12-102      96.02
12-103      96.03
12-105      96.04,
            96.05
12-106      96.06
12-107      96.07
12-108      96.08
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
245        5-10-71     32.08
250        10-11-71    153.01,
                       154.01
290        5-12-77     32.08
291        6-27-77     153.01
292        6-27-77     154.01
299        11-21-77    150.01,
                       150.66
301        2-15-78     34.01
304        7-10-78     133.40
305        7-10-78     133.43
307        7-10-78     32.04
309        7-10-78     35.03
360        7-10-78     31.01
320        10-1-79     112.01,
                       112.02
322        10-15-79    50.03
323        10-15-79    35.02
328        4-7-80      32.02
336        2-2-81      52.17
356        2-7-83      33.46
357        2-7-83      92.08
359        2-7-83      94.07
364        7-11-83     50.03
371        11-7-83     33.46
382        11-5-84     31.02
383        11-5-84     34.11
384        11-5-84     35.33
385        11-5-84     35.03
386        11-5-84     33.46
399        9-9-85      33.12
400        9-9-85      33.04
401        9-9-85      34.12
302        10-7-85     32.42
403        10-7-85     93.23
404        12-2-85     71.10
409        2-3-86      52.18
478        9-15-86     33.04
429        1-5-87      32.08
438        8-3-87      53.35—
                       53.39
439        8-3-87      53.03
440        8-3-87      53.22
441        8-3-87      53.21
445        10-5-87     32.08
448        10-5-87     33.12
451        11-2-87     113.01
463        6-5-89      53.36
469        1-8-90      35.11
470        1-8-90      35.64
475        3-5-90      70.11
478        7-13-90     31.07
482        10-1-90     33.04
488        12-18-90    35.02
1991-O-001 1-7-91      30.03
1991-O-003 1-7-91      31.02
1991-O-004 2-4-91      71.10
1991-O-009 4-1-91      30.46
1991-O-018 12-2-91     53.03
1992-O-002 2-3-92      52.22
1992-O-005 3-2-92      133.05
1992-O-006 4-6-92      70.09
1992-O-017 11-13-92    52.27
1991-O-015 12-2-92     52.18
1993-O-001 2-1-93      31.04
1993-O-002 2-1-93      33.01
1993-O-003 2-1-93      33.06
1993-O-012 8-16-93     31.03
1994-O-009 7-11-94     35.33
1994-O-011 7-11-94     35.36
1994-O-013 7-25-94     131.05
1994-O-017 8-1-94      32.02
1994-O-018 8-1-94      70.01
1994-O-019 8-1-94      70.09
1994-O-020 8-1-94      71.11
1994-O-021 8-1-94      71.09
1994-O-    9-12-94     94.07
                       71.08,
1994-O-023 9-12-94     71.25—
                       71.28
1994-O-025 9-12-94     151.03
1994-O-027 9-12-94     71.12
1994-O-034 11-7-94     92.25
1995-O-001 1-9-95      52.28
1995-O-002 1-9-95      70.10
1995-O-003 1-9-95      70.10
1995-O-004 1-9-95      71.13
1995-O-008 3-6-95      51.05
1995-O-011 4-3-95      131.05
1995-O-12  4-3-95      52.17
1995-O-013 4-3-95      33.06
1995-O-014 4-3-95      30.44
1995-O-016 5-1-95      35.32
1995-O-017 5-1-95      32.02
1995-O-018 5-1-95      32.62
1995-O-019 6-5-95      93.24
1995-O-031 7-3-95      92.08
1995-O-027 8-7-95      94.09
1995-O-028 8-7-95      133.05
1995-O-031 12-4-95     131.01
1996-O-001 1-8-96      33.03
1996-O-002 1-8-96      35.30
1996-O-003 1-8-96      35.35
1996-O-004 2-5-96      35.36
1996-O-005 2-5-96      70.09
1996-O-007 - -         70.10
1996-O-014 6-3-96      52.22
1996-O-020 8-5-96      94.07
1996-O-023 9-9-96      31.03
1991-O-008 4-1-97      30.45
1997-O-004 5-21-97     31.01
1997-O-005 6-29-97     33.05
1997-O-006 6-2-97      30.40
1997-O-007 6-2-97      30.44
1997-O-008 6-2-97      30.41
1997-O-010 7-7-97      30.45
1997-O-011 7-7-97      30.48
1997-O-013 7-22-97     30.47
1997-O-014 7-22-97     35.33
1997-O-015 7-22-97     35.35
1997-O-16  7-22-97     35.06
1997-O-017 8-4-97      35.63
1997-O-18  8-4-97      32.04
1997-O-019 8-4-97      50.03
1997-O-033 12-1-97     111.25
1998-O-006 4-6-98      32.10
1998-O-008 4-6-98      35.02
1998-O-010 6-1-98      35.65
1998-O-013 8-24-98     30.03
1998-O-016 9-14-98     34.11
1998-O-017 9-14-98     35.33
1998-O-018 9-14-98     35.34
1998-O-020 9-28-98     35.35
1998-O-021 9-28-98     35.62
1998-O-022 9-28-98     35.61
1998-O-024 10-5-98     35.63,
                       53.36
1998-O-027 10-5-98     35.60
1999-O-002 3-1-99      32.05
721        7-6-99      35.09
745        7-6-99      32.21
1999-O-007 - -         51.08
1999-O-010 9-13-99     154.02
1999-O-011 9-13-99     50.01
1999-O-012 9-13-99     34.15
2000-O-017 9-26-00     150.01,
                       150.66
020        11-6-00     150.40—
                       150.45
2001-O-03  2-5-01      52.03
2001-O-04  2-5-01      131.01,
                       134.05
2001-O-05  2-5-01      131.06,
                       131.07
2002-O-001 2-4-02      52.03
2002-O-002 2-5-02      150.05
2002-O-009 4-1-02      52.29
2002-O-014 7-1-02      52.03
                       97.01—
2002-O-013 7-5-02      97.03,
                       97.98,
                       97.99
2003-O-004 4-7-03      52.04
2003-O-009 4-21-03     52.17
2003-O-010 5-12-03     53.18
2003-O-014 5-12-03     90.03
2003-O-019 6-16-03     150.40—
                       150.46
                       95.01—
                       95.07,
2003-O-020 8-11-03     95.20—
                       95.43,
                       95.99
2003-O-021 9-8-03      Adopting Ordinance
2003-O-022 10-6-03     72.17
2003-O-025 10-6-03     52.22
2004-O-001 2-2-04      35.09
2004-O-002 3-8-04      154.01
2004-O-003 3-8-04      154.01
2004-O-009 7-12-04     52.28
2004-O-010 6-7-04      52.03
2004-O-012 7-12-04     52.31
2004-O-021 12-6-04     95.99
2005-O-001 3-21-05     31.19,
                       31.20
2005-O-005 3-7-05      52.30
2006-O-001 1-9-06      134.07
2006-O-004 2-13-06     115.02
2006-O-005 2-13-06     115.01
—        4-1-06      53.36
2006-O-011 4-3-06      94.22
2006-O-015 5-8-06      153.01
2006-O-016 5-8-06      152.01—
                       152.16
2006-O-018 5-8-06      33.80—
                       33.90
2006-O-022 7-10-06     154.01 
2006-O-025 7-10-06     32.03
2006-O-027 9-11-06     52.36
2006-O-028 9-11-06     150.05
2006-O-029 11-6-06     50.07
2006-O-030 12-4-06     154.01
2006-O-034 12-4-06     31.21
2006-O-037 12-4-06     31.22
2006-O-038 12-4-06     31.15
2006-O-040 12-18-06    31.14
2006-O-041 12-18-06    31.15
                       31.07,
2006-O-042 12-18-06    31.08,
                       31.13
2007-O-001 1-8-07      53.35
2007-O-006 2-5-07      30.49
                       155.01—
                       155.03,
2007-O-007 5-7-07      155.10—
                       155.28,
                       155.29
2007-O-010 3-19-07     31.23
2007-O-018 6-4-07      Repealing 110.01—110.04
2007-O-019 7-3-07      153.01
2007-O-022 8-6-07      33.02
2007-O-023 8-6-07      92.42
2007-O-024 8-6-07      33.16
2007-O-030 9-10-07     153.01
2008-O-019 12-1-08     52.06
2008-O-028 10-6-08     53.36
2009-O-001 1-5-09      72.08
2009-O-003 4-16-09     32.09
2009-O-005 5-4-09      133.25
2009-O-008 6-1-09      52.03
2010-O-004 4-5-10      70.12
2010-O-007 6-7-10      95.32
                       155.02,
2010-O-014 1-1-10      155.04,
                       155.13
2010-O-015 12-27-10    32.63
2011-O-001 1-3-11      70.12
2011-O-003 3-21-11     32.63
2011-O-007 5-2-11      71.25
2011-O-011 6-6-11      115.02
2011-O-012 6-6-11      Repealing 32.10
2011-O-013 6-6-11      33.75, Repealing 33.76
2011-O-015 7-11-11     135.01—
                       135.06
2011-O-023 9-12-11     111.53
2011-O-025 11-7-11     35.16
2011-O-027 12-5-11     52.03
2011-O-006 5-2-11      71.14
2012-O-001 1-9-12      35.16
2012-O-014 6-4-12      152.07,
                       152.13
2012-O-020 11-5-12     90.63
2012-O-022 12-5-12     52.03
2013-O-004 3-4-13      154.01
2013-O-007 4-1-13      91.15
2013-O-013 6-3-13      91.15
2013-O-016 7-22-13     94.60—
                       94.62
2013-O-020 10-7-13     91.02
2013-O-021 10-7-13     35.15
2013-O-022 12-2-13     72.14
2014-O-023 11-3-14     154.01
2015-O-006 4-6-15      30.10
2015-O-007 4-6-15      34.09
2015-O-010 5-4-15      93.25
2015-O-011 4-6-15      110.01—
                       110.07
2015-O-012 4-6-15      133.20—
                       133.22
2015-O-013 4-6-15      133.40
2015-O-014 4-6-15      134.01
2015-O-020 7-6-15      92.42
2015-O-021 7-6-15      131.05
2015-O-023 7-6-15      72.08
2015-O-024 8-3-15      72.08
2015-O-031 9-4-15      52.03
2015-O-036 11-2-15     32.10
2015-O-040 12-7-15     52.18
2016-O-001 1-4-16      95.44
2016-O-002 1-4-16      91.15
2016-O-004 1-4-16      95.32
2016-O-006 2-1-16      111.53
2016-O-019 12-5-16     32.64
2017-O-006 5-1-17      52.03
2017-O-011 6-5-17      152.17
2018-O-005 5-7-18      32.10
2018-O-013 9-10-18     52.03
2018-O-015 9-10-18     90.45
2019-O-002 3-4-19   91.15
2019-O-005 5-6-19      52.03
2019-O-011 7-1-19      70.13
2020-O-002 1-6-20      133.20—
                       133.22
2020-O-003 4-6-20      73.01—
                       73.04
2021-O-013 9-13-21     71.25
2022-O-012 10-3-22     52.03
2022-O-013 10-3-22     53.36
2023-O-006 7-3-23      91.15
                      
 
