SCHUYLER, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-10, passed 7-16-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Supplementation of code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the "Schuyler Code of
Ordinances" and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The Schuyler City Council.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. Schuyler, Nebraska.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code, as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Colfax County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; how enacted; title, see Neb. RS 16-404
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 16-247
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Discretion. When preparing a supplement to this city code, the
codifier (that is, the person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the
supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of
ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make
changes in the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this subchapter," "this section," and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to "§§       through      " (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as "§      " or "§§       through      " which are not filled in prior to
adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (B)   Prohibition. In no case shall the codifier make any change in the
meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
embodied in the code and not repealed by any ordinance.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists, as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 16-246
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official corporate seal
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription: "City of
Schuyler, Colfax County, Nebraska." The Municipal Clerk shall affix an
impression of the official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances,
and all other official papers issued by order of the Governing Body and
countersigned by the Municipal Clerk.
(1972 Code, § 1-601)
Statutory reference:
   City seal, see Neb. RS 16-115
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
30.001   Governing Body
   
30.002   Order of business
   
30.003   Parliamentary procedure
   
30.004   Organizational
   
30.005   Open to public; notice; agenda
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.015   Ordinances, rules, and resolutions; grant of power
   
30.016   Ordinances, resolutions, or appropriations of money; passage
   
30.017   Ordinances; introduction
   
30.018   Ordinances; form
   
30.019   Resolutions and motions; procedure
   
30.020   Ordinances; publication or posting
   
30.021   Ordinances; certificate of publication or posting
   
30.022   Ordinances; emergency ordinances
   
30.023   Ordinances; amendments and revisions
Elections
   
30.035   Generally
   
30.036   Notice
   
30.037   Registered voters; qualifications
   
30.038   Special elections
   
30.039   Election of officers; certifications required
   
30.040   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
30.041   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
30.042   Filing fee
   
30.043   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
30.044   Recall procedure
   
30.045   Exit polls
   
30.046   Wards
Fiscal Management
   
30.060   Fiscal year
   
30.061   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
30.062   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
30.063   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount tax
   
30.064   Budget procedure
   
30.065   Annual audit
   
30.066   General property tax
   
30.067   Appropriations
   
30.068   Reappropriated funds
   
30.069   Expenditures
   
30.070   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
30.071   Claims
   
30.072   Warrants
   
30.073   Transfer of funds
   
30.074   Borrowing funds
   
30.075   Judgments
   
30.076   Special Assessment Fund
   
30.077   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
30.078   General Fund
   
30.079   Deposit of funds
   
30.080   Investment of funds
   
30.081   Bond issues
   
30.082   Bond requirements
   
30.083   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
30.084   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
30.085   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
30.086   Revision of budget
Compensation
   
30.100   Municipal officials
   
30.101   Conflict of interest
   
30.102   Salaries of officials
Eminent Domain
   
30.115   Procedure
Police Officers Pension Plan
   
30.130   Incorporation
   
30.131   Retirement Committee; members
   
30.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
MEETINGS
§ 30.001 GOVERNING BODY.
   The meetings of the Governing Body shall be held in the Council Chambers in
the City Hall. Regular meetings shall be held on the first and third Tuesdays
of each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m. Special meetings may be called by the
Mayor, or by three members of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Council in writing. The call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the Municipal Clerk.
No other business shall be transacted at the meeting unless all members of the
City Council are present and consent thereto. On filing the call for a special
meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall notify the Councilmembers of the special
meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not
be given to a Councilmember known to be out of the state, or physically unable
to be present. Four members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day
and compel the attendance of the absent members; provided that on the request
of any two members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members
shall be sent for and compelled to attend. At the hour appointed for the
meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall proceed to call the roll of members and
announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum is present, the Council shall
be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or if absent, by the President of
the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor and the President of the Council,
the City Councilmembers shall elect a President Pro Tempore.
(1972 Code, § 1-701) (Ord. 965, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 30.002 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Governing Body shall be open to the public.
   (B)   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting,
the members of the Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk, the Mayor, and any
other municipal officials that may be required shall take their regular
stations in the Council Chambers, and the business of the municipality shall be
taken up for consideration, and disposition in the following order:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading and approval of the minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Consideration of petitions and other communications;
      (4)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business of the preceding meeting;
      (6)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
      (7)   Final passage of ordinances;
      (8)   Special order of business;
      (9)   Claims for and against the municipality;
      (10)   Miscellaneous business; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
(1972 Code, § 1-702)
§ 30.003 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the Governing Body and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Governing
Body. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave
the meeting room. With the exception of the Governing Body and those appointed
officials seated with the Governing Body, every person present, previous to
speaking shall rise from his or her seat and address himself or herself to the
presiding officer and while speaking shall confine himself or herself to the
question. When two or more persons rise at once, the Mayor shall recognize the
one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall be reduced to writing
before being acted upon, if requested by the Municipal Clerk, or any member of
the Governing Body. Every member of the Governing Body who is present when a
question is voted upon, shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority
of the Governing Body present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Governing Body making the motion, or resolution
shall be entered also. After each vote, the “Yeas” and “Nays” shall be taken,
and entered in the minutes upon the request of any member of the Governing
Body. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or proposed
ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor thereof with the
consent of the member of the Governing Body seconding the resolution, motion,
or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times, or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table, and
to adjourn. Each of the motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Governing Body for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds vote
of the members present. The Mayor may refer back to any order of business after
passing it, if there are no objections by any member of the Council. The
Governing Body may reprimand or censure its members for any breach of trust or
disorderly behavior. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these
rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Governing Body
shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
(1972 Code, § 1-703) (Ord. 610, passed 12-19-1978)
§ 30.004 ORGANIZATIONAL.
   The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting on
the first Tuesday in December in each year at 8:30 p.m. and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the new municipal year
shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then proceed to examine the
credentials of its members and other elective officers of the municipality to
see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see that the oaths and
bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining that all members are
duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its own body who shall be
styled as “President of the Council.” The Mayor shall then nominate his or her
candidates for appointive offices and the officers shall hold office until
their successors are duly appointed and qualified. He or she shall then proceed
with the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and
every member of the Council, or of its successors in office and of each officer
hereafter elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first Tuesday in
December following his or her election, and at 8:30 p.m. upon the first Tuesday
in December following his or her election, each officer elected at the regular
municipal election shall take possession of his or her office. All appointive
officers shall qualify within two weeks following their appointment. The
outgoing officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their
reports, and upon the old Council having completed its
business up to the time, the outgoing members of the Council shall surrender
their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to his or her successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys belonging to the same; after which the outgoing
Council shall adjourn sine die.
(1972 Code, § 1-704) (Ord. 541, passed 5-4-1976; Ord. 558, passed 11-16-1976)
§ 30.005 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and
to the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body's jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper's website; or
         (b)   Posting written in three conspicuous public places in the city.
The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-5-2021)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.015 ORDINANCES, RULES, AND RESOLUTIONS; GRANT OF POWER.
   The Governing Body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances,
bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the State of Nebraska, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the
peace, good government, and welfare of the municipality and its trade,
commerce, and security.
(1972 Code, § 1-801)
§ 30.016 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, OR APPROPRIATIONS OF MONEY; PASSAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the City Council. The Mayor may vote on
any such matter if (i) the Mayor's vote is required due to the City Council
members being equally divided or (ii) a majority vote of all the elected
members of the City Council cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or
abstention of one or more City Council members. For purposes of such vote, the
Mayor is deemed to be a member of the City Council.
   (B)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on
three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to suspend
this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended (i) for any ordinance
for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for City
Council election districts or wards or (ii) as otherwise provided by law.
   (C)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by
title and then moved for final passage.
   (D)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(1972 Code, § 1-802) (Ord. 857, passed 12-19-1995; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-
2022; Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; how enacted; title, see Neb. RS 16-404
§ 30.017 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in either of
the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may rise in his or
her place and in the presence and hearing of a majority of the members elected
to the Council read aloud the substance of his or her proposed ordinance and
file a copy of the same with the Municipal Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may present his or
her proposed ordinance to the Clerk who in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance
of the same and shall file the same for future consideration.
(1972 Code, § 1-803)
§ 30.018 ORDINANCES; FORM.
   The form of ordinances shall be as follows: First, the title, which clearly
and fully expresses every subject contained in the text of the ordinance;
second, the statutory ordination clause as follows: “Be It Ordained by the
Mayor and Council of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska;” third, the text of the
ordinance properly divided into sections, each section to contain and express,
as nearly as possible, a single unit of legislative matter; fourth, a section
repealing prior ordinances in conflict with the ordinance; fifth, a section
prescribing the time when the ordinance shall take effect, which in every case
shall be upon its passage, approval, and publication according to law; sixth, a
violation and penalty section, where the ordinance is penal in character;
seventh, the date of the passage and approval of the ordinance, the signature
of the Mayor and the attestation of the Municipal Clerk thereto.
(1972 Code, § 1-804)
§ 30.019 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS; PROCEDURE.
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one time in the presence and hearing of a majority of
the members of the Council. The issue raised by the resolutions or motions
shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law adopted
for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote shall be required to pass any
resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be viva voce
and “yeas” and “nays” thereon shall be recorded by the Clerk if one or more
members of the Council shall request a roll call; provided, however, the roll
shall be called in every instance where the matter before the Council involved
directly or indirectly the expenditure of public funds.
(1972 Code, § 1-805) (Ord. 734, passed 12-5-1985)
§ 30.020 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the City of
Schuyler, or, if no paper is published in the city, then by posting a written
or printed copy in each of three public places in the city; or
   (B)   In book, or pamphlet or electronic form.
(1972 Code, § 1-806) (Ord. 551, passed 9-21-1976; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-
2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 16-405
§ 30.021 ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the seal of the municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and
when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and where
the same was posted.
(1972 Code, § 1-807)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 16-405
§ 30.022 ORDINANCES; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, the ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public places in the
municipality. The emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by
a three-fourth’s vote of the Governing Body, and entered upon the Municipal
Clerk’s minutes.
(1972 Code, § 1-808)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 16-405
§ 30.023 ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed.
(1972 Code, § 1-809)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinances; how enacted; title, see Neb. RS 16-404
ELECTIONS
§ 30.035 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 30.036 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 30.037 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 30.038 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) of this section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) of this section may cancel the special election if the
Secretaty of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a
resolution adopted by the political subdivision canceling the special election
on or before the fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall
be effective after such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner,
the city shall be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the
canceled election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in
Neb. RS 32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2) of
this section may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretaty of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
city withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 16-305, 16-326, 32-559 and 32-405
§ 30.039 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 30.040 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 30.041 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the general election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of an elective office,
the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between January
5 and July 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No incumbent who
resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or her term shall
file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All other
candidates shall file for office between January 5 and August 1 prior to the
date of general election.
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk. Forms and fees to be obtained and paid with City
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 30.042 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City of Schuyler Treasurer by or on behalf of each
candidate for City of Schuyler office prior to filing for office. The fee shall
be placed in the general fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be
filed until the proper payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of
such filing fee is presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing
deadline, the City Treasurer's office shall remain open to receive filing fees
until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary, or for which there is a
salary of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of election. Upon approval of the claim by the City Council,
the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 2-17-2015; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 30.043 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710. (Neb. RS
32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-
608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012; Ord. 2015-03, passed 2-17-2015; Ord. 2016-10,
passed 12-20-2016; Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019)
§ 30.044 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member's ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member's
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32- 630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official's usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official's last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32- 630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official's usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first- class mail to the official's
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) of this section,
order an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date
that complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other Governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same Governing Body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019; Ord. 2021-01,
passed 1-5-2021; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 32-1301 through 32-1303, 32-1305, 32-1306,
32-1308 and 32- 1309
§ 30.045 EXIT POLLS.
   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside the polling
place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth. Any person violating
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provide in §
10.99 of this municipal code.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.046 WARDS.
   The municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent federal census to insure that each ward is substantially equal in
population. The city shall be divided into three wards as follows:
   (A)   First Ward. Shall consist of all territory in the corporate limits
being and lying south of the centerline of 16th Street, and east of Colfax
Street, also known as State Highway 15, therein.
   (B)   Second Ward. Shall consist of all territory in the corporate limits
being and lying south of the centerline of 16th Street, and west of Colfax
Street, also known as State Highway 15, therein.
   (C)   Third Ward. Shall consist of all territory in the corporate limits
being and lying north of the centerline of 16th Street.
(1972 Code, § 1-920) (Ord. 2021-10, passed 12-21-2021)
FISCAL MANAGEMENT
§ 30.060 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the municipality, for the purposes of taxation and
appropriations, shall begin the first day in August of each year.
(1972 Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Fiscal year, see Neb. RS 16-701
§ 30.061 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Governing Body or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the Governing Body; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Governing Body as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(1972 Code, § 1-1002) (Ord. 940, passed 4-3-2001; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-
2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 13-504 and 13-505
§ 30.062 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the Governing Body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least four
calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city's jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the City Council's principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the Governing Body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the Governing Body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Council of such errors. The Council shall correct
any such error as provided in § 35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures
provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Council.
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(1972 Code, § 1-1003) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-2-2018; Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-5-
2021; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 13-506 and 13-507
§ 30.063 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522, together with the amount of the tax
required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under Neb. RS 13-505.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(1972 Code, § 1-1004) (Ord. 2018-02, passed 1-2-2018; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-
18-2022; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Budget statement, see Neb. RS 13-506 and 13-508
§ 30.064 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509, is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1972 Code, § 1-1005)
§ 30.065 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. The audit shall be completed, and the annual audit report made
not later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. The accountant
making the audit shall submit not less than three copies of the audit report to
the Governing Body. All public utilities shall be audited separately, and the
results of the audits shall appear separately in the annual audit report. The
audit shall be in a form that is in general conformity with accepted accounting
principles and shall set forth the financial position for each fund of the
municipality as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the
financial statements. Two copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with
the Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the
Municipal Clerk’s office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 19-2901 through 19-2909) (1972 Code, § 1-1006)
§ 30.066 GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The Governing Body shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the
amount of tax to be levied upon the actual value of all the taxable property of
the municipality for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing
year, including all special assessments and taxes. The maximum amount of tax
which may be certified and assessed shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the legal maximum as prescribed by state law.
(1972 Code, § 1-1007)
Statutory reference:
   General property tax, see Neb. RS 16-702
§ 30.067 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Governing Body shall, on or before August 15, pass an ordinance to be
termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which are appropriated the sums of
money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and
liabilities of the municipality, not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of
tax authorized to be levied. The ordinance shall specify the objects and
purposes for which the appropriations are to be made, and the amount
appropriated for each purpose. Any balance unexpended and unobligated at the
end of the fiscal year shall, unless reappropriated, lapse into the general
fund.
(1972 Code, § 1-1008)
Statutory reference:
   Annual appropriation bill, see Neb. RS 16-704
§ 30.068 REAPPROPRIATED FUNDS.
   At the time of making the Annual Appropriation Bill the Mayor and Council
may, if notice shall have been given in the annual estimate or yearly budget,
reappropriate any unexpended balance in any fund for the use of some other fund
if there be no outstanding bonds, warrants, or claims against the fund whose
unexpended balance or portion thereof is sought to be reappropriated. No
sinking funds or interest funds on outstanding bonds or moneys in any fund
required to meet depreciation, replacement, or betterments reasonably
contemplated, and no moneys credited to the Library Fund, the Auditorium Fund,
or Park Fund shall ever be reappropriated. In the event that no reappropriation
of funds is authorized as aforesaid, unexpended balances shall be carried
forward and placed to the credit of the funds to which they belong when the
books of the Municipal Treasurer are opened at the commencement of each fiscal
year.
(1972 Code, § 1-1009)
§ 30.069 EXPENDITURES.
   No municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the municipal treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the general fund of the municipality shall exceed in any
one year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement.
(1972 Code, § 1-1010)
Statutory reference:
   Expenditures, see Neb. RS 16-706
§ 30.070 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over $30,000,
shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
governing body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the city electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper, designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 16-321 when adopted by a 3/4 vote of the governing body
and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the governing body or
Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those
materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is
provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 16-321)
   (H)   Any bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body or Board of
Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162; or
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 16-321.01)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
(1972 Code, § 1-1011) (Ord. 634, passed 2-5-1980; Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-
2012)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 30.071 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order or warrant
shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which
it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient money in the municipal treasury
for the appropriate fund against which it is to be drawn; provided, that in the
event there exists obligated funds from the federal and/or state government for
the general purpose of the warrant, then the warrant may be drawn in excess of
85%, but not more than 100% of the current levy for the purpose for which the
warrant is drawn.
(1972 Code, § 1-1012)
Statutory reference:
   Claims; filing payment, Neb. RS 16-726
§ 30.072 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of
the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of the
fund.
(1972 Code, § 1-1013)
Statutory reference:
   City Treasurer; warrants, see Neb. RS 16-718
§ 30.073 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
Governing Body that, due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Governing Body may by a majority
vote, unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds
to the fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
30.085, or by state law.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any officer or officers of the Governing Body to
obligate funds contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Neb. RS 13-510) (1972 Code, § 1-1014) (Ord. 927, passed 6-20-2000) Penalty,
see §
30.999
§ 30.074 BORROWING FUNDS.
   The Council may, by a two-thirds vote of the members elected thereto, order
the Mayor and Municipal Treasurer to borrow a sufficient sum to provide for the
expense necessary to be incurred in making any repairs to or restorations of
improvements, the necessity for which has arisen from accident or casualty, for
a period of time not exceeding the close of the next fiscal year, which sum and
the interest shall be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the next
general tax levy and embraced therein.
(1972 Code, § 1-1015)
§ 30.075 JUDGMENTS.
   Should any judgment be obtained against the municipality, the Mayor and
Municipal Treasurer under the sanction of the Council may borrow a sufficient
amount of money to pay the same for a period of time not exceeding the close of
the next fiscal year, which sum so borrowed and interest shall, in like manner,
be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy of the
next year and shall be embraced therein.
(1972 Code, § 1-1016)
§ 30.076 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and the money shall be used for no other purpose
unless to reimburse the municipality for money expended for any such
improvement.
(1972 Code, § 1-1017)
Statutory reference:
   Expenditures; limitations, see Neb. RS 16-706
§ 30.077 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division if, having bonded indebtedness, such
city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election the
proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed, If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division, the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do all
things authorized under such resolution of submission but never inconsistent
with this section. The election provided for under this section shall be
conducted as provided under the Election Act. (Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in Neb. RS 17-540. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds
are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported
to the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record
by the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds.
The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds,
when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of
one year from and after the date of such election. (Neb. RS 19-1304)
(1972 Code, § 1-1018) (Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 30.078 GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
(1972 Code, § 1-1019)
§ 30.079 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   The Governing Body, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate one or more banks of approved and responsible standing in which the
Municipal Treasurer shall keep at all times all money held by him or her;
provided, if more than one bank in the municipality meets the requirements for
approved banks as herein defined, the funds shall be deposited in each of them,
and the Municipal Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one or more of
them in the money he or she shall deposit. A bond shall be required from all
banks so selected in a penal sum which equals the maximum amount on deposit at
any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
or a pledge of sufficient assets of the bank to secure the payment of all the
deposits.
(Neb. RS 77-2362 through 77-2364) (1972 Code, § 1-1020)
Statutory reference:
   City funds; depositories, see Neb. RS 16-712 through 16-716
§ 30.080 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Municipal
Treasurer to invest surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the municipality, and other approved bonds and obligations as
provided by law. The interest on the bonds or warrants shall be credited to the
fund out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 77-2341) (1972 Code, § 1-1021)
§ 30.081 BOND ISSUES.
   The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for the purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on the bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805, and 39-836) (1972 Code, § 1-1022)
§ 30.082 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   All bonds hereafter issued by the municipality shall, before the bonds or
any of them are sold or negotiated, be presented to the Auditor of Public
Accounts, and he or she shall examine the bonds and all proceedings relative to
their issue, and if he or she be satisfied that the bonds have been legally
issued for a lawful purpose, register the same in his or her office in a book
kept by him or her for that purpose. He or she shall under his or her seal of
office certify upon the bonds the fact that they have been regularly and
legally issued, and that they have been registered in his or her office in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the data filed in his or her
office being the basis of the certificate. It shall be the duty of the
Municipal Clerk to transmit with the bonds to the Auditor of Public Accounts a
duly certified transcript of all the proceedings had previous to the issuance
of the bonds relative thereto, for the information of the Auditor, and it is
hereby likewise made the duty of the Clerks to furnish the transcript to the
holder of any bond of the municipality on demand of the holder.
(1972 Code, § 1-1023)
§ 30.083 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit or community college, as determined using
the previous year's rate of levy, the City of Schuyler's property tax request
for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the
prior year, and the city's rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to
set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) of this section. If the City Council seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so after holding the public hearing required in division
(C) of this section and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with
division (D) of this section. If any county, city, school district or community
college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable
growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C)
and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit or community college, as
determined using the previous year's rate of levy, the city's property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the City Council's rate of levy for the current year shall
be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If the
City Council seeks to set its property request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) of this section and by passing a resolution or
ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section. If any county, city,
school district or community college seeks to increase its property tax request
by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall
comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in
divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
City of Schuyler at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes
of such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. If the City of Schuyler's total operating budget, not
including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial
period, the notice may be posted at the City Council's principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year's tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year's
tax request if applied to the current year's valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a City of Schuyler's property tax
request under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city's property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the City of Schuyler;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by      %;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $      per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Schuyler proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $      per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of City of Schuyler will exceed last year's
by      %;
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(1972 Code, § 1-1024) (Ord. 925, passed 6-20-2000; Ord. 2019-12, passed 12-3-
2019; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 30.084 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The city may levy a
maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the
levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C).
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off- street parking districts established
under the Off-Street Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-street parking
districts established under the Off-Street Parking District Act, the tax shall
be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by dividing the total
taxable valuation of the taxable properly within the district by the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city multiplied by the
levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B).
The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in division
(C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision's Governing Body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
Governing Body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the Governing Body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(1972 Code, § 1-1025) (Ord. 926, passed 6-20-2000; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-
2023)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444
§ 30.085 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any
county, city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   The Governing Body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision's principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated representative
of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision's intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision's budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by __ percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The City of Schuyler, Nebraska proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska
will exceed last year's by ___ percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the City of Schuyler, Nebraska at
(telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county's website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 10,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
of this section to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall
notify the County Assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing not later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each
participating political subdivision of the date, time and location of the joint
public hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be
included on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) of this section to a
printing service designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing
the postcards shall be paid from the county general fund. Such postcards shall
be mailed at least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The
cost of creating and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials,
and postage, shall be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels
in each participating political subdivision. Each participating political
subdivision shall also maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible
link on the home page of the political subdivision's website to the political
subdivision's proposed budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if
the political subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000
inhabitants, a city with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for
joint public hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   The postcard sent under this division and the notice posted on the
county's website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) of this section, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision's property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(9)(a) of this section;
         (c)   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates;
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property's assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property's assessed value for the current year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in the division (C) of this
section, the Governing Body of each participating political subdivision shall
pass an ordinance or resolution to set political subdivision's property tax
request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by___ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Schuyler, Nebraska proposes to adopt a property tax
request that will cause its tax rate to be $___ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska will
exceed last year's by ___ percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the Governing Body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include:
      (1)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
      (2)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
      (3)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
      (4)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
      (5)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
      (6)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint public
hearing. Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-2022; Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-7-2023; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 1-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 77-1633
§ 30.086 REVISION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81.829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Council's jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)    The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under Neb. RS 13-506,
the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, the City Council shall correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511) (1972 Code, § 1-1026) (Ord. 926, passed 6-20-2000; Ord. 2016-
02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-2022)
COMPENSATION
§ 30.100 MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of any elective official of the municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been
elected except when there has been a merger of offices; provided, the
compensation of the members of the Governing Body, a board, or commission may
be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member
whether or not the terms of one or more members commence and end at different
times. No elected official may be rehired at a greater salary if he or she
resigns and desires to be rehired during the unexpired term of office. He or
she may be rehired after the term of office during which he or she resigned at
a greater salary. All salaries shall be set by ordinance of the Governing Body
and will be available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The salaries of all appointed officials and employees shall be in the
amount as may be fixed by ordinance at the time of their employment or when the
annual budget is made. Claims for the salaries of the several officers and
employees fixed herein need not be verified as other claims against the
municipality and warrants for the amount due shall be issued as hereinafter
provided. In consideration of the salaries received, all fees earned by any
official or employees in connection with their official duties shall, unless
otherwise provided by ordinance, be the property of the municipality and shall
be promptly paid over to the Municipal Treasurer. The salaries and
compensations set by ordinance shall not be construed to preclude the
additional payment of mileage and expense to the municipal officials and
employees, if and when claims are duly filed, audited, and allowed therefor.
(1972 Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 16-305 and 16-326
§ 30.101 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No officer of the municipality shall be permitted to benefit from any
contract to which the municipality is a party when the consideration of the
contract is in an amount in excess of $10,000 in any one year, and no contract
may be divided for the purpose of evading the requirements of this section. Any
such interest in a contract shall void any obligation on the part of the
municipality; provided, the receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and
buying and selling of the warrants and bonds of the municipality shall not be
considered a contract under the provisions of this section. No official shall
receive any pay or compensation from the municipality other than his or her
salary. The Governing Body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty which shall come within the proper scope of the duties of
any officer of the municipality; provided, that ownership of less than 1% of
the outstanding stock of any class in a corporation shall not constitute an
interest within the meaning of this section.
(1972 Code, § 1-1102)
Statutory reference:
   Free or discounted service to officers; contingent compensation contracts
prohibited, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
   Officers; extra compensation prohibited, see Neb. RS 16-502
§ 30.102 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the municipality of
Schuyler, Nebraska, are to be set by the City Council from time to time.
(1972 Code, § 1-1103)
EMINENT DOMAIN
§ 30.115 PROCEDURE.
   The Governing Body may, after negotiations in good faith have failed, bring
condemnation actions for the acquisition of property within the municipality.
The procedure shall be prescribed by state law and damages shall be paid to the
condemnee according to the provisions therein.
(Neb. RS 76-701 through 76-724) (1972 Code, § 1-1201)
POLICE OFFICERS PENSION PLAN
§ 30.130 INCORPORATION.
   The Police Officers Pension Plan for the city is made a part of and
incorporated into this subchapter as if set forth at length. The Plan was
previously adopted by the city by motion on 12-3-2002. A copy of this Plan is
on file in the office of the City Clerk. The Mayor and Council are hereby
authorized to amend the Plan at any time by a motion duly moved, seconded, and
adopted. The Plan shall be effective 1-1-2003.
(1972 Code, § 1-1301) (Ord. 983, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 30.131 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; MEMBERS.
   There is hereby established a Retirement Committee for the Police Officers
Pension Plan. The Committee shall consist of six members, four of which shall
be selected by officers of the Police Force of the City. Two members shall be
designated by the City Council. Members of the Governing Body of the city may
serve on the Retirement Committee. Committee members shall be appointed for
four-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the term by a
person within the same representation as his or her or her predecessor. Members
of the Retirement Committee shall receive no salary and shall not be
compensated for expenses.
(Neb. RS 16-1015) (Ord. 983, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply. Nothing herein shall prevent prosecution under state law where the
possible penalty, either fine or imprisonment, exceeds the limits specified
herein.
(1972 Code, § 1-1401) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
31.01   City Mayor; selection and duties
   
31.02   City Council; Acting President
   
31.03   City Council; selection and duties
   
31.04   City Council; organization
   
31.05   Elected officials; vacancy
   
31.06   Mayor; vacancy
Appointed Officials
   
31.20   General authority
   
31.21   Merger of offices
   
31.22   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
31.23   Municipal Attorney
   
31.24   Municipal Treasurer
   
31.25   Treasurer’s annual report
   
31.26   Treasurer’s monthly report
   
31.27   City Clerk
   
31.28   Municipal Physician
   
31.29   Municipal Police Chief
   
31.30   Police; arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
31.31   Police officers; discipline or removal from duty; notice and hearing;
determination
   
31.32   Municipal Engineer
   
31.33   Special Engineer
   
31.34   Municipal Utilities Superintendent
   
31.35   Vacancies in appointed or elected positions
   
31.36   Street Commissioner
   
31.37   Building Inspector
   
31.38   Electrical Inspector
   
31.39   Plumbing Inspector
   
31.40   Gas Inspector
   
31.41   City Administrator
   
31.42   Code Enforcement Officer
 
   
31.99   Penalty
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor of the municipality shall have the general, and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected, or appointed, of the
municipality. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and
may vote when his or her vote shall be decisive on any pending matter,
legislation, or transaction and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of the vote,
be deemed to be a member of the Council. His or her signature must appear on
the Municipal Clerk’s minutes of all meetings, and he or she must sign all
resolutions which have been passed, and warrants for the payment of money when
ordered by the City Council; provided, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be
passed over his or her veto by a two-thirds vote by the members of the City
Council, but if the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, and
returns it to the Council with his or her objections in writing at the next
regular Council meeting, the same shall become a law without his or her
signature. He or she shall from time to time communicate to the Council the
information and recommendations as, in his or her opinion, may improve the
municipality. He or she may require at reasonable intervals any municipal
official to exhibit his or her accounts and make reports to the Council on any
subject pertaining to his or her office. He or she shall have the power to
remit fines or pardon any offense arising under the ordinances of the
municipality. He or she shall have the authority to call on every male
inhabitant of the municipality over 18 years of age and under the age of 50
years to aid in enforcing the laws. He or she may remove at any time an
appointed police officer of the municipality. His or her territorial authority
shall extend over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
municipality for the enforcement of any health ordinance, and one-half mile in
all matters vested in him or her except taxation. He or she shall also have any
other duties as the City Council may by resolution confer upon him or her, or
in any other matters which the laws of the State of Nebraska repose in him or
her. He or she shall be elected at the municipal election, and shall serve a
four-year term of office. Any candidate for Mayor must have resided within the
municipality for 40 days prior to filing for the office and must in addition be
a qualified taxpayer.
(1972 Code, § 1-101) (Ord. 544, passed 6-15-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor, see Neb. RS 16-312 through 16-316
§ 31.02 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one of its own body
to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor.
(1972 Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 16-402
§ 31.03 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-year
term. Two members of the Council shall represent each ward. One Councilmember
shall be elected from each ward in each regular municipal election. The City
Council shall be the legislative division of the municipal government, and
shall perform the duties and have the powers as may be authorized by law. The
City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate business, protect the public
health and safety, and assess the taxes and fees as are necessary and
appropriate in the exercise of these functions.
(1972 Code, § 1-103)
Statutory reference:
   Council; election, terms, see Neb. RS 16-302.01
§ 31.04 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
   City Councilmembers of this municipality shall take office, and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Councilmembers who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the meeting has been called to order, the Municipal Clerk
shall report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmembers-elect who
have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be spread
upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of the
municipality shall be represented by at least two Councilmembers. No person
shall be eligible who is not at the time of his or her election an actual
resident of the ward for which he or she is qualified and should any City
Councilmember move from the ward from which he or she was elected, his or her
office shall thereby become vacant.
(Neb. RS 19-613) (1972 Code, § 1-104) (Ord. 541, passed 5-4-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Council; election, terms, see Neb. RS 16-302.01
§ 31.05 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in an elected office of the municipality,
except Mayor, notice of the vacancy shall be presented in writing to the City
Council at a regular meeting and the notice shall appear as a part of the
minutes of the meeting.
   (B)   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality or by posting in three public places in the municipality the
office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Mayor shall within two weeks after the regular meeting at which
the notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call a
special meeting of the City Council at which time the Mayor shall submit the
name of a qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the
unexpired term. Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council the
vacancy shall be filled.
   (D)   If a majority vote is not reached, the nomination shall be rejected
and the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of another
qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by majority vote,
the Mayor shall continue at the meeting to submit the names of qualified
electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon the nominations until
the vacancy is filled.
   (E)   The Mayor shall cast his or her vote only in case of a tie vote of the
City Council.
   (F)   All City Councilmembers shall cast a ballot for or against each
nominee.
(Neb. RS 32-4,152) (1972 Code, § 1-105) (Ord. 542, passed 5-18-1976)
§ 31.06 MAYOR; VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his or
her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
Office of Mayor until the vacancy is filled or the disability is removed, or in
case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
   (B)   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from
assuming office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the
term, but the office shall automatically become vacant and the President of the
Council shall exercise the office of Mayor until the vacancy is filled.
   (C)   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the Office
of Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on
the Council which shall be filled as provided in §
31.05.
(1972 Code, § 1-105.01) (Ord. 542, passed 5-18-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor; vacancy, see Neb. RS 32-568
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint the
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. The
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by and with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint the other officials as may be
necessary, and may establish a police reserve force as provided by law. All
police officers, and other appointed officials shall be subject to removal at
any time by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 81-1438 through 81-1446) (1972 Code, § 1-201) (Ord. 588, passed 11-9-
1977)
Statutory reference:
   Officers; appointment, removal, see Neb. RS 16-217 and 16-309
§ 31.21 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The Governing Body of the municipality may, in its discretion, by ordinance
combine, and merge any elective, or appointive office, or employment, except
the Mayor, City Councilmember, or police magistrate, with any other elective,
or appointive office so that one or more of the offices may be held by the
officer or employee at the same time; provided, the offices so merged, and
combined shall always be construed to be separate, and the effect of the
combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties
only; and provided further, the salary of the officer holding the merged
offices shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the
salary of the offices so combined.
(1972 Code, § 1-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 16-305
§ 31.22 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   (A)   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are
hereby combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the
City Council of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, in §
31.21.
   (B)   The offices so merged and combined shall always be construed to be
separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary of the officer holding the merged offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary of the offices so
combined.
(1972 Code, § 1-202.01) (Ord. 482, passed 8-8-1972)
§ 31.23 MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the municipality’s legal advisor, and as such he
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the
municipality. When requested by the Governing Body, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Governing Body, and shall advise any municipal official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the municipality may be involved. He
or she shall draft the ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may
be required in the administration of the affairs of the municipality. He or she
shall examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the Governing Body
will be required to act, and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all
the instruments, and documents as to whether, or not, the document is in legal,
and proper form. He or she shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute
violations of the municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the Governing
Body. Without direction, he or she shall appear, and prosecute all cases for
violation of the municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and are
pending in any higher court. He or she shall also examine, when requested to do
so by the Governing Body, the ordinance records, and advise, and assist the
Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that they will be
valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their passage and approval are
concerned. The Governing Body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal
Attorney for legal services on the terms as the Governing Body and the
Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as
may be necessary out of the funds of the municipality.
(1972 Code, § 1-203)
Statutory reference:
   City Attorney; duties, see Neb. RS 16-319
§ 31.24 MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issues and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or Neb. RS 17-
606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be
charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warranty register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warranty presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warranty is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
(1972 Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-5-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Treasurer; duties; reports, see Neb. RS 16-318
§ 31.25 TREASURER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall publish in a legal newspaper having general
circulation within the municipality, within 60 days following the first day of
October of each year, a report of the doings of his or her office which the
report shall show in detail. The report shall include all receipts,
disbursements, warrants outstanding, and the debit or credit balance of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 19-1101) (1972 Code, § 1-205)
§ 31.26 TREASURER’S MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall at the end of each and every month, and any
other times as the Governing Body may deem necessary, render an account to the
Governing Body under oath showing the financial state of the municipality at
that date, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid
therefrom, and the balance of money remaining in the treasury. He or she shall
accompany the account with a statement of all receipts, and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed, and paid by him or her. He or she shall
also produce depository evidence that all municipal money is in a solvent, and
going bank in the name of the municipality. If the Municipal Treasurer shall
neglect, or fail for the space of ten days from the end of each and every month
to render his or her accounts as aforesaid, the Governing Body shall, by
resolution, declare the office vacant, and appoint some person to fill the
vacancy. The Municipal Treasurer shall be present at each regular meeting of
the Governing Body at which time he or she shall read and file his or her
monthly report.
(1972 Code, § 1-206)
Statutory reference:
   Treasurer; reports, see Neb. RS 16-318
§ 31.27 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of §
31.24.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city. (Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
1201 through 84-1220, provided the provisions of this division shall not apply
to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books,
or any other record classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall also
deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within 5 days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then prepare
transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
(1972 Code, § 1-207) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-5-2021)
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk; duties, see Neb. RS 16-317
§ 31.28 MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
   The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality, and perform the duties devolving upon him or her as the medical
advisor of the Board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted against
the municipality, the Municipal Physician shall immediately investigate the
injuries, the extent thereof, and the circumstances. He or she shall then
report the results of his or her investigation with the name of the party
injured, and all other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter.
He or she shall make all physical examinations, and necessary laboratory tests
incident thereto, and issue the health certificates as are required by
ordinance. For the purpose of making examinations of the sanitary conditions of
the property, and the state of health of the inhabitants therein, he or she
shall have the right at all reasonable hours to go upon, and enter all
premises, buildings, or other structures in the municipality. He or she shall
perform any other duties as may be required of him or her by the laws of the
State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the municipality. When ordered to do
so by the Governing Body, he or she shall disinfect or fumigate the premises,
or persons in or about the premises, when the premises are quarantined, and to
call upon indigent sick persons, and perform other professional services at the
direction of the Governing Body. The Municipal Physician shall receive as
compensation for his or her services the sum as the Governing Body may from
time to time set. He or she shall receive no compensation for his or her
services as a member of the Municipal Board of Health.
(1972 Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal physician, see Neb. RS 16-238
§ 31.29 MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the municipality
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall
act as Health Inspector, and Building Inspector, except in the event the
municipality appoints another person. He or she shall file the necessary
complaints in cases arising out of violations of municipal ordinances, and
shall make all necessary reports required by the municipal ordinances, or the
laws of the State of Nebraska.
(1972 Code, § 1-209)
Statutory reference:
   Police Chief, see Neb. RS 16-323
§ 31.30 POLICE; ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the municipality shall have the power to arrest
all offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night,
in the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the
municipal prison or other place to prevent their escape until trial can be had
before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the municipality or otherwise perform the
functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the municipality.
   (D)   Any municipal law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce
the laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated
village or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any municipal law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any municipal law enforcement officer has this enforcement and
arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the municipality, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any
other municipality or county for law enforcement services or joint law
enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have this enforcement
authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating political
subdivisions if provided for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the
agreement, the municipality shall provide liability insurance coverage for its
own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a municipal law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
do any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer's primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer's primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer's primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, personal watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of
alcoholic liquor or of any other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-
1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196,
60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or 60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If municipal law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the municipality in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense
emergency when that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The municipality
shall self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
(1972 Code, § 1-210) (Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Police; powers, see Neb. RS 16-323
§ 31.31 POLICE OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY; NOTICE AND HEARING;
DETERMINATION.
   (A)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. The notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
   (B)   Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of the disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the Municipal
Clerk a written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The City Council
shall set the matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after
the filing of the written demand for a hearing. The City Council shall give the
police officer written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to
the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
      (1)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
      (2)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
      (3)   To be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge.
The failure of the City Council to act within 30 days or the failure of a
majority of the elected Councilmembers to vote to reverse or modify the
disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge shall be
construed as a vote to uphold the disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. The decision of the City Council shall be based upon its
determination that, under the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the
challenged disciplinary action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge was
necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of the Police
Department in the performance of its duties under the state statutes.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the peremptory
suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer, pending the hearing
authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or
disobedience of orders.
(1972 Code, § 1-210.01) (Ord. 859, passed 2-6-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Police, see Neb. RS 16-225
§ 31.32 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   The Municipal Engineer, who shall be hired for consulting purposes, shall
make all surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary to be made for the
establishment of any public utilities, and the costs of labor and materials
therefor. He or she shall accurately make all plats, sections, and maps as may
be necessary under the direction of the Governing Body. Upon request, he or she
shall estimate of the costs of labor and material, and make all surveys,
estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges,
or culverts and for the building, constructing, or repairing of any public
improvement of the municipality. Upon the request of the Governing Body, he or
she shall inspect all works of public improvement, and if found to be properly
done, shall accept the same, and report his or her acceptance to the Governing
Body. He or she shall estimate the cost of all proposed municipal utilities and
public improvements, together with any extensions thereof, which the Governing
Body may propose to construct or improve. He or she shall also perform any
other duties in the line of his or her work as may be requested by the
Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 1-212)
Statutory reference:
   City Engineer, see Neb. RS 16-321
   Special engineer, see Neb. RS 16-322
§ 31.33 SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Governing Body may employ a Special Engineer to assist the Municipal
Engineer in making any particular estimates, surveys, or other work as may be
required.
(1972 Code, § 1-213)
Statutory reference:
   Special engineer, see Neb. RS 16-322
§ 31.34 MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed by the Board of Public Works
subject to approval of the Governing Body in the event that there is more than
one municipal utility, and the Governing Body determines that it is in the best
interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the immediate
control over all the municipal utilities. The Utilities Superintendent may be
removed for good cause by a two-thirds vote of the Governing Body and any
vacancy occurring in the office by death, resignation, or removal may be filled
in the manner hereinbefore provided for the appointment of all municipal
officials. The Superintendent so employed shall, before entering upon his or
her official duties, post a bond with the municipality in the sum of $5,000,
which bond shall be approved by the Governing Body prior to his or her taking
office.
(1972 Code, § 1-214)
§ 31.35 VACANCIES IN APPOINTED OR ELECTED POSITIONS.
   Whenever any vacancy shall occur in any appointed or elected office for any
reason, including absence from the municipality or from any regular or stated
meeting of the Council for 30 days without excuse from the Mayor or other legal
cause, the Mayor with the concurrence of a majority of the Council shall fill
the office for the unexpired term. A vote shall be taken and a record made of
the filling of vacancies.
(1972 Code, § 1-215)
§ 31.36 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall be subject to the orders of the Mayor
and Council and under the supervision of the Committee on Streets; shall have
general charge, direction, and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks,
culverts, and bridges of the municipality; and he or she shall also perform any
other duties as the Governing Body may require. As Sidewalk Inspector, he or
she shall have general control of all sidewalks and sidewalk spaces. It shall
be his or her duty to see that sidewalks and sidewalk spaces are not unlawfully
occupied. He or she shall report all obstructions thereon and unlawful use of
the same to the Governing Body. He or she shall have authority to go upon any
private property and to enter any areaways under sidewalks at reasonable hours.
He or she shall serve all notices pertaining to sidewalks, crossings, and
alleys and shall keep in a suitable book an accurate record of each notice so
served with the time and manner of the service. He or she shall likewise keep a
record of all sidewalks ordered built. It is hereby made the duty of the Street
Commissioner to personally view and inspect any and all lots and parcels of
land for weeds and worthless vegetation thereon at least once in each month
during the growing season and if rank and noxious weeds or worthless vegetation
shall be found growing upon any lot, lots, or lands within the city, or upon
the streets and alleys abutting upon any lot, lots, or lands, the owner or
owners of the lot, lots, or lands shall be required to destroy and remove the
same therefrom and from the streets and alleys abutting thereon. If the owner
or owners fails, neglects or refuses, after five-days’ notice by publication or
by personal service, to destroy or remove the same, the Street Commissioner
shall cut and remove or cause the weeds or vegetation to be cut and removed as
herein provided and to report the cost thereof in writing to the Governing
Body, and the bill shall be audited and paid by the municipality, and the
amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot, lots or lands as a special
tax thereon, and be levied and collected as are other taxes of the city. It is
the duty of the Street Commissioner personally to view sidewalks contiguous to
any lot, lots, or lands within the municipality to ascertain if any snow, ice,
mud, or other obstructions encroach into or upon the sidewalks. In the event
any such encroachments shall be found to exist, it shall be the duty of the
owner or owners of the abutting property to remove the same. If the abutting
property owner or owners refuses or neglects, after reasonable notice by the
Street Commissioner, it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to remove
the same or cause the same to be removed, and to report the cost thereof to the
Governing Body. The bill shall be audited and paid by the municipality out of
the Street Fund, and the Governing Body shall assess the cost of the notice and
removal of the encroachment against the abutting property. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as special taxes in addition
to the general revenue taxes, and shall be subject to the same penalties and
shall draw interest at 7% per annum from the date of the assessment. Upon
payment of the assessment, the same shall be credited to the Street Fund.
      (B)   The Street Commissioner shall keep a daily record of work and type
of work completed by each employee of the Street Department and the number of
hours required therefor. The Street Commissioner shall be provided with printed
forms for such purpose. One copy shall be given to the Chairperson of the
Street Committee detailing work completed for the previous week. The Street
Commissioner shall file copies of the work record each month with the Municipal
Clerk for presentation to the Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 1-216)
Statutory reference:
   Street Commissioner, see Neb. RS 16-324
§ 31.37 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of this code pertaining to building construction and repair. For
those purposes, he or she shall have the powers of the municipal police. In
accordance with the procedure and with the approval of the Governing Body, the
Building Inspector may appoint the number of officers, inspectors, assistants,
and other employees as shall be authorized from time to time. He or she may
deputize the employees as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
Building Department. Upon presentation of proper credentials the Building
Inspector or his or her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable
times any building, structure, or premise to perform any duty imposed upon him
or her by the Building Code, Electrical Code, Plumbing Code, and Gas Code.
Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the provisions of the
codes, the Building Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to be done, and any
such person shall forthwith stop work until authorized by the Building
Inspector to proceed with the work. Whenever any structure is being used
contrary to the provisions of the codes, the Building Inspector may order the
use discontinued and the structure, or portion thereof, vacated by notice
served on any person causing the use to be continued. The person shall
discontinue the use within ten days after a receipt of the notice or make the
structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of the codes. The
Building Inspector acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of
his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself liable personally and he or
she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of
any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit brought
against the Building Inspector, because of the act or omission performed by him
or her in the enforcement of any provisions of the codes, shall be defended by
the Legal Department of the municipality until final termination of the
proceedings. The Building Inspector may request, and shall receive so far as
may be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of other officials of the municipality. It shall be the duty of the
Building Inspector to issue building permits and make required inspections of
new and old buildings. The Building Inspector shall, except when some other
official is specifically named, be and have the duties of, the Electrical
Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector, and the Gas Inspector. The Building
Inspector shall also occupy a position on the examining bodies for the issuance
and reissuance of plumbing, electrical, and gas fitting licenses and
registrations. The Building Inspector shall have the duty of numbering houses
and reporting the numbers to the Municipal Clerk as required in this code. The
Inspector shall have the additional duties and make the reports as the
Governing Body may prescribe by ordinance or otherwise.
(1972 Code, § 1-217)
§ 31.38 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as ex officio Electrical
Inspector until further order of the Governing Body. The Electrical Inspector
shall file with the Governing Body a bond of a surety company in the sum of
$1,000, conditioned that he or she will indemnify and keep harmless the
municipality from all liabilities from accident or damage arising from
negligence or carelessness in performing his or her work or for any inadequate
work done in pursuance of his or her appointment and office, and that he or she
will keep all records of his or her office, as provided herein, which shall be
the property of the municipality and shall be filed and preserved by the
Electrical Inspector in the office of the cashier of public utilities and which
shall be delivered to his or her successor in office. He or she may be removed
from office for cause only after a full hearing before the Governing Body. It
shall be unlawful for the Electrical Inspector to engage in the business of the
installation and maintenance of electric wiring, electric devices and
electrical materials, either directly or indirectly for profit and he or she
shall have no financial interest in any concern engaged in the business in the
municipality at any time while holding the office of Electrical Inspector. Any
violation of this provision shall be sufficient cause for his or her removal
from office, but he or she may be removed for other just cause. It shall be the
duty of the Electrical Inspector to enforce the provisions of the Electrical
Code. He or she shall inspect all electric apparatus installed within the
municipality. He or she shall notify the owner of the premises on which any
electrical apparatus has been installed, or the electrician installing the
same, of any work done contrary to the provisions of the Electrical Code, and
of any defective workmanship or material therein. It shall be the duty of the
owner, or electrician, upon being notified of any such defect, immediately to
remedy the same, and, if not remedied with a reasonable time, the Electrical
Inspector or his or her deputy shall discontinue the electric apparatus from
the electric supply; provided, if the defect is such as to endanger life or
property, then the Electrical Inspector or his or her agent shall disconnect
the electric apparatus immediately. When any electric apparatus shall have been
disconnected from the electric supply, it shall not again be connected until
all defects have been remedied or until the installation complies strictly with
the provisions of this subchapter. The Electrical Inspector shall keep a full
and complete record of all work done, construction permits issued, examinations
made or other official work performed, as required by this section, and shall
annually make a full and detailed report thereof to the Council at the second
regular meeting in January. The records shall be the property of the
municipality, and shall be so arranged in the office of the Building Inspector
so as to afford prompt information concerning the condition and general
arrangement of any electrical equipment at the time of the inspector’s last
visit. The Electrical Inspector shall have any additional duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 1-218)
§ 31.39 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Plumbing Inspector shall have supervision of all plumbing and
drain laying in the municipality and shall perform the duties as are
hereinafter prescribed. He or she shall have the right, during reasonable
hours, to enter any building in the municipality for the performance of his or
her duties. He or she shall have the assistant or assistants as the Governing
Body may provide and when appointed by the Governing Body, the assistant shall
have the same powers and duties as the Plumbing Inspector. The Plumbing
Inspector shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council. The Building Inspector may be appointed Plumbing Inspector at the
discretion of the Governing Body. When the Building Inspector serves as
Plumbing Inspector he or she shall not receive any additional compensation for
his or her services as Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector to inspect all plumbing
work done in the municipality and if after having made the proper final
inspection on any job of plumbing work the same is found to be properly done it
shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector to issue to the plumber in charge
of the work a certificate of completion setting forth the fact that the work
has been tested and inspected and the same found to have been done according to
the requirements of this municipality.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Plumbing Inspector to investigate all
reported cases and complaints referred to him or her in writing of the
imperfect workmanship of any job of plumbing work or the violation of the
provisions of the Plumbing Code. He or she shall order the work removed and
replaced in a proper and workmanlike manner to conform to the spirit and intent
of the Plumbing Code and he or she may further request the Municipal Attorney
to file a complaint against any person for violation of the provisions of this
code or the Plumbing Code, and to prosecute the same without unnecessary delay
when the Plumbing Inspector signs the complaint. The Plumbing Inspector shall
have the power and authority to enter any building or upon any premise at all
reasonable hours to ascertain if the provisions of this code, the Plumbing
Code, or any ordinance relating to plumbing have been or are being violated.
Whenever defective or unsanitary plumbing is found, it shall be the duty of the
Plumbing Inspector to notify the agent or owner of the premise on which the
same is found to forthwith cause the plumbing to be changed and to conform with
the plumbing installation requirements of this municipality, and to be changed
and made sanitary in any other manner as the Plumbing Inspector may authorize
and direct. The owner or agent is hereby required within ten days after
receiving the notification to comply therewith, and upon failing or neglecting
to do so he or she shall be considered to be maintaining unsanitary plumbing
and violating the requirement hereof. It shall be the duty of the Plumbing
Inspector to make a complaint against the owner or agent and cause him or her
to be prosecuted.
   (D)   The Plumbing Inspector shall keep a complete record of all inspections
and tests made by him or her as Plumbing Inspector and make the reports as may
be required by the heads of other departments, except it shall not be necessary
to report the tests made on old work.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the Plumbing Inspector to engage in the
business of plumbing or to perform any work as a plumber in the municipality
during the term of office as Plumbing Inspector.
(1972 Code, § 1-219) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.40 GAS INSPECTOR.
   The Gas Inspector shall have supervision over all gas fitting and
installation work done in the municipality and shall perform the duties as are
hereinafter prescribed. He or she shall have the right during reasonable hours
to enter any building in the municipality for the performance of his or her
duties. He or she shall have the assistant or assistants as the Governing Body
may provide and when appointed by the Governing Body, the assistant shall have
the same powers and duties as the Gas Inspector. The Gas Inspector shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The
Building Inspector may be appointed Gas Inspector at the discretion of the
Governing Body. When the Building Inspector serves as Gas Inspector he or she
shall not receive any additional compensation for his or her services as Gas
Inspector; provided, that if no other official is appointed Gas Inspector, the
Building Inspector shall be Gas Inspector ex officio. It shall be the duty of
the Gas Inspector to inspect all gas installation work done in the municipality
and if after having made the proper final inspection on any job of gas fitting
or installation work the same is found to be properly done, it shall be the
duty of the Gas Inspector to issue to the gas fitter in charge of the work a
certificate of completion setting forth the fact that the work has been tested
and inspected and the same found to have been done according to the
requirements of this municipality. It shall be the duty of the Gas Inspector to
investigate all reported cases and complaints referred to him or her in writing
of the imperfect workmanship of any job of gas fitting or installation or the
violation of the provisions of the Gas Code and he or she may further request
the Municipal Attorney to file a complaint against any person for violation of
the provisions of this code, the Plumbing Code, and to prosecute the same
without unnecessary delay when the Gas Inspector signs the complaints. The Gas
Inspector shall have the power and authority to enter any building or upon any
premise at all reasonable hours to ascertain if the provisions of this code,
the Gas Code, or any ordinance relating to gas installation have been or are
being violated. Whenever defective work is found, it shall be the duty of the
Gas Inspector to notify the agent or owner of the premise on which the same is
found to forthwith cause the work to be changed and to conform with the terms
and requirements of this municipality. The owner or agent is hereby required
within ten days after receiving the notification to comply therewith, and upon
failing or neglecting to do so he or she shall be considered as maintaining
defective gas installation appurtenances and appliances and violating the
requirements hereof. It shall be the duty of the Gas Inspector to make a
complaint against the owner or agent and cause him or her to be prosecuted. The
Gas Inspector shall keep a complete record of all inspections and tests made by
him or her as Gas Inspector and make the reports as may be required by the
heads of other departments, except it shall not be necessary to report the
tests made on old work. It shall be unlawful for the Gas Inspector to engage in
the business of gas fitting or to perform any work as a gas fitter during his
or her term of office.
(1972 Code, § 1-220) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.41 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Office of the Administrator of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, is
hereby established, as provided by law. The City Administrator shall be
appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the majority of the City
Council and shall be the administrative head of the municipal government under
the direction and control of the Mayor and City Council and shall be
responsible to the Mayor and City Council for the efficient conduct of the
Administrator’s office. The Office of the City Administrator may not be held by
the Mayor; however, the appointed Administrator may concurrently hold any other
appointed office provided for in this code. When so appointed, the
Administrator shall hold his or her office for the term as is agreed upon and
contracted for by the Mayor and City Council and the Administrator, as
hereinafter provided, unless sooner removed by the Mayor, with the approval of
the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council shall, upon the appointment of a City
Administrator, negotiate and enter into a written contract of employment with
the Administrator which contract shall provide for, but not be limited to, the
following items:
         (a)   Term of employment;
         (b)   Compensation for services rendered by Administrator;
         (c)   Duties of the Administrator;
         (d)   Expenses of the Administrator;
         (e)   Vacation time and sick leave; and
         (f)   Disability of the Administrator.
      (2)   The contract may be revised and rewritten by the Mayor and City
Council with the consent of the Administrator at any time during its term, if
the revision is deemed necessary by the parties thereto.
   (C)   The duties, responsibilities, and powers of the City Administrator
shall be as follows:
      (1)   To administer and manage the daily operation of the city government
in accordance with the general policies, directives and recommendations for the
operation of the city as are promulgated by the Mayor and City Council of the
City of Schuyler, Nebraska;
      (2)   To prepare and keep up to date an inventory of and exercise general
supervision and control over all real and personal property and other public
property that the city owns or has an interest in, and to coordinate the
purchase of all supplies, goods, wares, merchandise, equipment, and materials
which may be required for the various departmental divisions and services of
the city, subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council;
      (3)   To keep the Mayor and City Council fully advised as to the
financial condition and needs of the City; to be responsible for and prepare
the annual estimate of expenditures for presentation to the Mayor and City
Council prior to the time for the passage and adoption of the annual
appropriation ordinance, and upon the adoption of the ordinance to properly
administer and execute the same;
      (4)   To serve as public relations officer of the city government; to
endeavor to investigate and adjust all complaints made or filed against the
city government and against any department, division, service, officer, or
employee thereof; and to cooperate with all community organizations whose aim
and purpose is to advance the best interests of the city and its citizens;
      (5)   To analyze the functions, activities, duties and responsibilities
of the various departments, divisions and services of the city government and
of all officers and employees thereof and to make recommendations respecting
the same to the Mayor and City Council respecting the functions, activities,
duties, and responsibilities;
      (6)   To recommend to the Mayor and City Council the appointment and
dismissal of all department heads and supervisors over which the Mayor and City
Council exercise the jurisdiction and control as provided by law; to appoint
and dismiss or delegate to department heads such right by resolution all
subordinate employees of the city over which the Mayor and City Council
exercise the jurisdiction and control as provided by law at the compensation as
may be fixed or authorized by the Mayor and City Council; and to provide for
and order the transfer of the subordinate employees from one department,
division, or service to another;
      (7)   To prepare and recommend to the Mayor and City Council a position
classification and compensation plan respecting city officers and employees;
and to prepare and submit to the Mayor and City Council at the end of each
fiscal year a complete report respecting the finances and administrative
activities of the city for the preceding fiscal year which report shall include
recommended short and long range improvements and any necessary facts to
substantiate the recommendations;
      (8)   To attend all regularly scheduled meetings of the City Council and
any other meetings of the City Council and city departments, divisions,
services, boards, commissions, committees, and officers as the Administrator’s
duties may require; to report at the meetings any matter concerning city
affairs within the jurisdiction and under the control of the Administrator; and
to recommend to the Mayor and City Council for passage and adoption the
measures, resolutions, and ordinances which may be deemed necessary or
expedient;
      (9)   To properly manage the affairs of the city and any department,
division, or service thereof and any contract or obligation running to the
city; and
      (10)   To perform any other duties and exercise any other powers as may
be delegated to the Administrator from time to time by ordinance or resolution;
and to delegate any duty, responsibility, or power set forth herein upon
approval of the Mayor and City Council by proper ordinance or resolution.
   (D)   The Administrator shall devote his or her entire time, attention, and
energy to the affairs of the City of Schuyler, and shall not, during the terms
of office or employment, be engaged in any other business activity whether or
not the business activity is pursued for gain, profit, or other pecuniary
advantage.
   (E)   The City Council and its members shall deal with the administrative
services of the city only through the Administrator except for purposes of
inquiring and investigating into the various departments and offices. Neither
the City Council nor any members thereof shall give orders to any subordinate
of the Administrator.
   (F)   The Administrator shall nominate a department head or any employee of
the City of Schuyler to serve as Acting City Administrator during the temporary
disability or absence from the city by the Administrator. The nominee, when
confirmed by the Mayor and Council, shall perform all the duties and exercises
all the powers of the Administrator during the period of disability or absence
of the Administrator, but shall receive no additional compensation therefor.
   (G)   The salary of the Administrator shall be fixed by ordinance and by the
written contract of employment with the Administrator. The written contract of
employment may also require residency within the City of Schuyler as a
condition of the employment as City Administrator.
   (H)   The City Administrator shall not participate in a local election that
affects the Offices of Mayor, City Councilmembers, or any other elective
municipal position, except for the casting of an individual ballot.
   (I)   The City Administrator shall have on file with the City Clerk a bond
in favor for the city for the faithful performance of his or her duties and
responsibilities in the amount fixed by resolution. The premium for the bond
shall be a city expense.
(1972 Code, § 1-221) (Ord. 731, passed 1-3-1985)
Statutory reference:
   City Administrator, see Neb. RS 16-308
§ 31.42 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Code Enforcement Officer. The
Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to enforce fire,
health and safety codes and constructional technical codes of the city. As
such, the Officer shall have the authority as set forth in Neb. RS 18-1757 to
issue citations for violations of fire, health, safety codes, and
constructional technical codes that:
      (1)   Constitute infractions or violations of city ordinances;
      (2)   Are violations of fire, health, safety code, or constructional
technical codes that the Officer is charged with enforcing; and
      (3)   In which the circumstances do not pose a danger to the Officer.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall upon assuming this office, be
trained by a certified law enforcement officer in the policies and procedures
for the issuance of citations.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Officer of the city is directed and is hereby
charged with overseeing the proper enforcement of ordinances dealing with the
following subjects: Chapter 94, dealing with health and sanitation issues,
specifically including garbage disposal and nuisances; parking ordinances,
including truck parking, abandoned motor vehicles, junk motor vehicles, and
parking on public sidewalks; weeds and unlawful growings; municipal property
obstructions; building numbers; sidewalks, including overhanging branches, snow
removal and other maintenance issues; signage; and parking in violation of the
zoning code.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall work with, cooperate with, and keep
fully advised other department heads of the city. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall be under the supervision of the Mayor. The authority of the Code
Enforcement Officer to issue citations in the areas set forth above shall not
relieve any other city official or department head of their responsibility
unless expressly set forth by city ordinance or policy.
(1972 Code, § 1-222) (Ord. 958, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply. Nothing herein shall prevent prosecution under state law where the
possible penalty, either fine or imprisonment, exceeds the limits specified
herein.
(1972 Code, § 1-1401) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 32: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Standing Committees
   
32.001   General provisions
Commissions and Boards
   
32.015   Library Board
   
32.016   Planning Commission
   
32.017   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.018   Board of Adjustment
   
32.019   Board of Plumbing Examiners
   
32.020   Board of Electrical Examiners
   
32.021   Board of Gas Mechanic and Fitters Examiners
   
32.022   Board of Public Works
   
32.023   Housing Agency Commission
   
32.024   Board of Health
   
32.025   Energy Commission
   
32.026   Community Development Agency
Tree Board
   
32.040   Tree Board; definitions
   
32.041   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board
   
32.042   Term of office
   
32.043   Compensation
   
32.044   Duties and responsibilities
   
32.045   Operation
   
32.046   Street tree species to be planted
   
32.047   Spacing
   
32.048   Distances and clearances for planting
   
32.049   Public tree care
   
32.050   Permits required
   
32.051   Tree topping
   
32.052   Clearance over streets and walkways
   
32.053   Dead or diseased tree removal
   
32.054   Removal of stumps
   
32.055   Interference with the Tree Board
   
32.056   Access
   
32.057   Arborist license and bond
   
32.058   Review by City Council
   
32.059   Constitutionality
Civil Service Commission
   
32.070   General; positions covered
   
32.071   Created
   
32.072   Appointments and promotions
   
32.073   Probationary period
   
32.074   Disciplinary actions
   
32.075   Reduction in force policy
   
32.076   Leave of absence
Ambulance Department
Editor's Note:
   The Ambulance Department of the city no longer exists as same has been
transferred pursuant to a memorandum of understanding to the Schuyler Rural
Fire Protection District, No. 3 of Colfax County, Nebraska - see Ordinance
2014-05, passed April 1, 2014.
   
32.999   Penalty
STANDING COMMITTEES
§ 32.001 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall
appoint members of the standing committees as the City Council may by ordinance
or resolution create. Each committee shall consist of three members. The
following shall constitutes the committees regularly appointed until changed:
      (1)   Finance;
      (2)   Streets and Alleys;
      (3)   Fire and Police;
      (4)   Building and Real Estate;
      (5)   Resources; and
      (6)   Ambulance.
   (B)   Committees may be changed at any time by the Mayor by and with the
consent of the majority of the Council. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio
of each standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve
a term of office of one year, unless reappointed.
(1972 Code, § 2-101)
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 32.015 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   General powers and duties.
      (1)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such
bylaws, rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of
the library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with
Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
      (2)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of
all money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the
renting and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care,
and custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set
apart for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
      (3)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate
building for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and
assistants, fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees
at the pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
      (4)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board my fix and impose,
by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or injury to
the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to return any
book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board shall have
and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit and intent
of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the library
and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (B)   Grounds and building. The Library Board my purchase or lease grounds,
exercise the power of eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose
of securing a site for a library building. The procedure to condemn property
shall be exercised in the manner set forth in Neb- RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
(1972 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 591, passed 11-15-1977; Ord. 652, passed 2-3-1981;
Ord. 2014-07, passed 5-20-2014)
§ 32.016 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the Council. Two
of the regular members may be residents of the area over which the municipality
is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation.
At least one of the original members of the Commission shall be a resident of
the area over which the municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial
zoning and subdivision regulation.
   (B)   A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall serve
without compensation and shall hold no other municipal office except when
appointed to serve on the Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908.
The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that three regular
members of the first commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one
year, three for terms of two years, and three for terms of three years. All
regular members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any
member may, after a public hearing before the Council, be removed by the Mayor
with the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the Council for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, or other good and
sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor.
   (C)   (1)   At the time of the Commission’s first meeting of each year, the
Commission shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. The Planning Commission shall be funded by the Governing Body from time
to time out of the General Fund. The Commission shall meet on the fourth
Tuesday of each month. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson, or any three members of the Commission. It shall be the duty of
the Commission to make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the
Commission’s judgement, bear relation to the planning of the municipality. All
actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
Governing Body. The Commission shall be responsible for making the reports and
performing the other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate. A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the Governing Body/City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d)   A member of the citizens’ advisory review committee created
under Neb. RS 18-2715.
      (2)   No member of the Planning Commission shall serve in the capacity of
both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission.
(1972 Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 589, passed 11-15-1977; Ord. 771, passed 9-20-1988;
Ord. 2006-3, passed 3-7-2006; Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-2-2018) Penalty, see §
32.999
Statutory reference:
   Planning Commission, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-929
§ 32.017 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of a majority of the Council, shall
appoint the Board of Park Commissioners. The Board shall consist of five
members, who shall be resident freeholders in the municipality. The members of
the Board shall serve a four-year term of office unless reappointed. The fifth
member appointed 9-16-1980 term shall expire in December 1984. The fourth
member appointed 11-15-1977 term shall expire in December 1981. The member
appointed in 1976 term shall expire in December 1980. The member appointed in
1975 term shall expire in December 1979. The member appointed in 1974 term
shall expire in December 1978. Any member of the Board may be removed by the
Mayor with the consent of a majority of the Council. The Board shall serve for
the compensation as the Governing Body may set by ordinance and may be
required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set
by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. The terms of all members shall begin at the time
of the Board’s first meeting in December of each year, the Board shall organize
by selecting from their number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the
duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. All accounts against
the Park Fund shall be audited by the Board of Park Commissioners and purchase
orders against the funds shall be drawn by the Chairperson and countersigned by
the Secretary. Warrants shall then be drawn by the Municipal Treasurer out of
the appropriate fund; provided, that all purchases, expenditures, or contracts
of indebtedness, other than for ordinary running expenses, in excess of $1,000
shall be first approved by the Governing Body; and provided further, that all
proposed additions to all parks or recreation facilities shall first be
referred to the Governing Body for approval. A majority of the Board members
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet
at the times as the Governing Body may designate. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two of the Board members. It shall be
the duty of the Board to take the immediate charge of all parks and
recreational facilities belonging to the municipality. The Board shall
establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, use, and
operation of the same. All employees of the municipality doing work in or for
the municipal park shall be under the supervision and direction of the Board.
All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and control of the
Governing Body. The Board shall be responsible for making an annual report to
the Governing Body at its second regular meeting in January and shall perform
the other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time, designate. No
member of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of the Park Commission
while serving a term of office as a member of the Governing Body. No member of
the Park Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and
Secretary of the Board.
(1972 Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 592, passed 12-6-1977; Ord. 645, passed 8-19-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Park Commissioners, see Neb. RS 16-696
§ 32.018 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall appoint the Board of Adjustment, which shall
consist of five regular members plus one additional member designated as an
alternate who shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is
unable to attend for any reason. Each member of the Board shall serve a term of
three years, unless reappointed, and shall be removable only for good and
sufficient cause by the Governing Body upon written charges and after a public
hearing. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set
by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. One member of the Board of Adjustment shall be at
the same time a member of the Planning Commission at all times. Upon the loss
of membership on the Planning Commission the member shall also lose his or her
membership on the Board of Adjustment. The Board shall organize at its first
meeting in December of each year and elect from its membership a Chairperson
and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep complete and
accurate minutes of all Board meetings and to file the same at the office of
the Municipal Clerk for examination at any reasonable time by the public. The
Board of Adjustment shall be funded from time to time out of the General Fund
by the Governing Body. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the times as the
Governing Body may designate, or at the other times as the Chairperson may, in
his or her discretion, call a meeting. Special meetings may be also held upon
the call of any three members of the Board. A majority of the board shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. It shall be the duty of
the Board to exercise the following powers: to hear and decide appeals where it
is alleged that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by an administrative official or agency based on or made in
the enforcement of any zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the
location or soundness of structure; to hear and decide in accordance with the
provisions of any zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map;
where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific
piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning regulations, or by
reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and
exceptional situation or condition of the piece of property, the strict
application of any enacted regulation under this act would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships
upon the owner of the property, to authorize upon appeal a variance from strict
application so as to relieve the difficulties or hardship.
   (B)   In granting any variance, the Board shall observe those standards set
forth at Neb. RS 19-910.
   (C)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by a municipal
official on any matter which was governed by any municipal zoning ordinance.
The Board shall be responsible for making the reports and performing the other
duties as the Governing Body may designate. No member of the Governing Body
shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment. No member of the Board of
Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board.
(Neb. RS 19-907 through 19-910) (1972 Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 590, passed 11-15-
1977; Ord. 607, passed 10-3-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Zoning Board of Adjustment, see Neb. RS 19-912.01
§ 32.019 BOARD OF PLUMBING EXAMINERS.
   The Mayor, with the consent of a majority of the Council, shall appoint the
Board of Plumbing Examiners. The Board shall consist of four members: the
Chairperson of the Board of Health, the Municipal Plumbing Inspector, one
journeyman plumber, and one master plumber. All members shall be residents of
the municipality and except for the Chairperson of the Board of Health, shall
be licensed plumbers. Each member of the Board shall be required to give a bond
in the sum of $1,000. The term of office of the Chairperson of the Board and
the Plumbing Inspector shall be four years unless removed or reappointed. The
term of office of the journeyman plumber and the master plumber shall be for
one and two years respectively. At the time of the Board’s first meeting in
August of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from the membership
one person to serve as Chairperson. The Plumbing Inspector shall serve as
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The Board
shall be funded from time to time by the Governing Body out of the General
Fund. The Board shall meet at the times as the Governing Body may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or any two
members of the Board. A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of doing business. Any person desiring to do any plumbing, or
to work at the business of plumbing in the municipality shall make a written
application to the Plumbing Board for an examination to test the applicant’s
practical and theoretical knowledge of plumbing, house drainage, ventilation,
and sanitation. Examinations shall be given within 30 days of the receipt of
the application. The Board may then cause the Chairperson and Secretary to
execute and deliver to the applicant a license authorizing him or her to do
plumbing in the municipality. Licenses so granted will be automatically
renewable by the Plumbing Board; provided, the Board shall have the discretion
to waive the examination if the Board is satisfied by other evidence that the
applicant is competent to do plumbing. If it comes to the attention of the
Board that the licensee may not be competent, or entitled to renewal, the Board
shall have the power to compel the licensee to take an examination prior to
renewal. Any license so granted may be revoked at any time by the Board for
good and sufficient cause after a hearing before the Board; provided, that the
licensing requirements of this section shall not apply to employees of the
water utility acting within the scope of their employment. The Board shall be
responsible for making the reports and performing the additional duties as the
Governing Body may, from time to time, designate. All actions of the Board
shall be subject to the review and supervision of the Governing Body. No member
of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of the Plumbing Board. No member
of the Plumbing Board shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and
Secretary of the Board.
(Neb. RS 18-1901 through 18-1909) (1972 Code, § 2-206)
§ 32.020 BOARD OF ELECTRICAL EXAMINERS.
   The Mayor, with the consent of a majority of the Council shall appoint the
Board of Electrical Examiners. The Board shall consist of three members and
they shall be the Electrical Inspector who shall be Chairperson of the Board; a
member of the Board of Public Works; and one duly licensed master electrician,
who shall be Secretary of the Board. The master electrician shall be appointed
for a term of two years and shall serve without pay, and should any member be
sooner removed from office, or resign, a new member to fill the vacancy shall
be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council in the same manner as
other new members are appointed. The Board shall be funded from time to time by
the Governing Body out of the General Fund. The Board shall meet at the times
as the Governing Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call
of the Chairperson, or any two members of the Board. A majority of the
membership shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. Any
person desiring to do any electrical work, or to work at the business of an
electrician, in the municipality shall make a written application to the
Electrical Board for an examination to test the applicant’s practical and
theoretical knowledge of electrical wiring, fire prevention, and appliance
installation. Examinations shall be given not later than 30 days after
application shall have been made. The Board may then cause the Chairperson and
Secretary to execute and deliver to the applicant a license authorizing him or
her to do electrical work in the municipality. Licenses so granted will be
automatically renewable by the Electrical Board; provided, the Board shall have
the discretion to waive the examination if the Board is satisfied by other
evidence that the applicant is competent to do electrical work. If it comes to
the attention of the Board that the licensee may not be competent or entitled
to renewal, the Board shall have the power to compel the licensee to take an
examination prior to renewal. Any license so granted may be removed at any time
by the Board for good and sufficient cause after a hearing before the Board.
The Board shall be responsible for making the reports and performing the
additional duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time, designate. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
Governing Body. No member of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of the
Board of Electrical Examiners. No member of the Board of Electrical Examiners
shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(1972 Code, § 2-207)
§ 32.021 BOARD OF GAS MECHANIC AND FITTERS EXAMINERS.
   The Examining Board for natural gas mechanics and fitters shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the consent of the majority of the Council. The Board shall
consist of three members and they shall be the Superintendent of Utilities who
shall be Chairperson; the Municipal Clerk who shall be Secretary; and one duly
licensed gas mechanic who shall serve without pay. The licensed gas mechanic
shall be appointed for a term of two years and shall serve without pay. Should
any member be sooner removed from office, resign, or a vacancy occurs, a new
member to fill the vacancy shall be appointed by the Mayor in the manner
prescribed for new members. The Board shall be funded from time to time by the
Governing Body out of the General Fund. The Board shall meet at the times as
the Governing Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of
the Chairperson, or any two members of the Board. A majority of the membership
shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. It shall be the
duty of the Board to amend and enforce rules and regulations, consistent with
this code and the ordinances if the municipality for the examination of gas
fitters and shall designate the time and place where the examinations shall be
held. Any person desiring to do any gas fitting work shall make a written
application to the Examining Board for an examination to test the applicant’s
practical and theoretical knowledge of the occupation of gas fitter and gas
appliance installation. The Board shall within 30 days after the receipt of the
application hold the requested examination. The Board may then cause the
Chairperson and Secretary to execute and deliver to the applicant a license
authorizing him or her to do gas fitting work in the municipality. Licenses so
granted will be automatically renewable by the Board; provided, the Board shall
have the discretion to waive the examination if the Board is satisfied by other
evidence that the applicant is competent to do gasfitting work. If it comes to
the attention of the Board that the licensee may not be competent or entitled
to renewal, the Board shall have the power to compel the licensee to take an
examination prior to renewal. Any license so granted may be removed at any time
by the Board for good and sufficient cause after a hearing before the Board.
The Board shall be responsible for making the reports and performing the
additional duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time, designate. All
actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
Governing Body. No member of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of the
Board. No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(1972 Code, § 2-208)
§ 32.022 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint the Board of
Public Works. The Board shall consist of three members who are residents of the
municipality. The members of the Board shall serve a four-year term of office,
unless reappointed, at a salary set by ordinance of the Governing Body of
$1,000 per year. The terms of not more than two members shall expire at any one
time. Members of the Board shall continue in office at the expiration of their
term until the time as their successor is duly appointed and qualified as
provided. Each of the members shall be required to give a bond to the
municipality in the sum of $5,000 and shall be conditioned on the faithful
performance of the duties of their office; provided, the premium on the bond
shall be paid out of a municipal fund designated by the Governing Body. No
member of the Board shall ever be financially interested in a contract entered
into by the Board on behalf of the municipality. The members of the Board shall
be required to take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of their office
before entering upon the discharge thereof. The terms of new members shall
begin at the Board’s first meeting in June of each year, and the Board members
shall organize by selecting from among their number a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any time. All
accounts against the public utilities in the municipality shall be audited by
the Board of Public Works, and warrants against the funds shall be drawn by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Secretary. Warrants so drawn and
countersigned shall be paid by the Municipal Treasurer out of the appropriate
fund. The minutes of each meeting shall be published in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality within 30 days after it is held. The
Board shall meet two times each month unless requested by the Governing Body to
meet more often. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson,
or any three members of the Board. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. It shall be the duty of
the Board to operate any utility owned by the municipality and to exercise all
powers conferred by law upon the municipality for the operation of utilities to
the same extent as the Governing Body, except that the Board shall not make an
expenditure other than ordinary operational expenses exceeding $1,000 without
first obtaining the approval of the Governing Body. The Board may, in its
discretion employ a commissioner to operate one or more of the municipal
utilities and who shall be under the immediate authority of the Board of Public
Works. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and supervision
of the Governing Body. The Board shall be responsible for making the reports
and performing the other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the Governing Body shall serve as a member of the Board
of Public Works while serving a term of office as a member of the Governing
Body. No member of the Board of Public Works shall serve in the capacity of
both the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(1972 Code, § 2-209) (Ord. 654, passed 5-19-1981; Ord. 858, passed 2-20-1996;
Ord. 966, passed 9-17-2002; Ord. 2014-09, passed 10-7-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Public Works, see Neb. RS 16-325
§ 32.023 HOUSING AGENCY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the Housing
Agency and the persons shall be called the Commissioners; the Governing Body
shall confirm or deny such appointment or reappointment pursuant to Neb. RS 71-
1596. Neb. RS 71-15,104 requires the Governing Body, being the City Council of
Schuyler, appoint at least one Commissioner who shall be known as a Resident
Commissioner. RESIDENT COMMISSIONER means a member of the governing board of
the Schuyler Housing Agency whose eligibility for membership is based upon such
person’s status as a recipient of direct assistance from the agency. The
Resident Commissioner shall be selected either by election or appointment as
set forth in Neb. RS 71-15,104. One Commissioner shall be appointed each year.
Each Commissioner shall serve a five-year term of office or until his or her
successor is duly appointed; provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired terms. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any
Commissioner shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk and the certificate shall
be conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of the Commissioner. A
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or
she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses,
incurred in discharge of his or her duties. Three Commissioners shall
constitute a quorum of the Agency for the purpose of conducting its business,
exercising its powers, and for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the
Agency upon the vote of the majority of the Commissioners present unless in any
case the bylaws of the Agency shall require a larger number. The Commissioners
shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from among the Commissioners and
shall have the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex
officio Secretary of the Agency. The Agency may also employ legal counsel, or
it may call upon the chief law officer of the municipality, for the services as
it may require. It may employ technical experts and any other officers, agents,
and employees as it may require and shall determine their qualifications,
duties, compensations, and terms of office. The Agency may delegate such other
powers and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem proper. During his
or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no commissioner, officer, or
employee of the Schuyler Housing Agency shall voluntarily acquire any interest,
direct or indirect, in any project or in any property included or planned to be
included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract relating to
any housing project. If any such commissioner, officer, or employee
involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily
acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as commissioner,
officer, or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or her interest
in writing to the Agency, and the disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes
of the Agency, and he or she shall not participate in any action by the Agency
relating to the property or contract in which he or she has any such interest;
provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in
notes or bonds of the Agency issued in connection with any housing project, or
to the execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit or handling
of funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee under any trust
indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or controlled
by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of
duty or misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor
shall send a notice of removal to the Commissioner which notice shall contain a
statement containing the charges against him or her. Unless within ten days
from the receipt of the notice, the Commissioner files with the Clerk a request
for a hearing before the Governing Body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as
removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the
Governing Body of the municipality shall hold a hearing at which the
Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the
Governing Body shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or
upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold
his or her position.
   (B)   The Housing Agency shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual
report at the second regular meeting in January to the Governing Body on all
the information at the time as the Governing Body shall prescribe.
(1972 Code, § 2-210)
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Housing Agency Act, see Neb. RS 71-1572 through 71-15,168
§ 32.024 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The Mayor, with the consent of a majority of the Council, shall appoint the
Board of Health. The Board of Health shall consist of five members: The Mayor,
who shall be Chairperson; a physician, who shall be Medical Advisor; the Chief
of Police, who shall be Secretary and Quarantine Officer; the President of the
Council, and one other member. A majority of such Board shall constitute a
quorum and the Board of Health shall have the power to designate health
nuisances and to recommend to the City Council of the City of Schuyler,
Nebraska, that it authorize and institute proper proceedings for the abatement
of same. Such recommendations of the Board of Health for additional ordinances
and for proceedings to abate health nuisances by the City Council shall include
all matters of health and safety of the city, which shall include but not be
limited to the power to enforce same, and to provide fines and punishments for
the violation thereof. The Board of Health shall have the power, when
authorized by separate ordinance of the city, to take appropriate action to
suppress nuisances and to enforce all laws of the state and this Municipal Code
and all other ordinances of the city relating to matters of health and
sanitation in the city. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall
reorganize at the first meeting each year. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and
to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. The Board of Health shall be funded
by the Governing Body of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, from time to time out
of the general fund. The Board shall meet at times as they determine or as
determined by the Governing Body. Special meetings may be held upon the call of
the Chairperson, or any two members of the Board.
(1972 Code, § 2-212) (Ord. 2020-15, passed 1-5-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Board of Health, see Neb. RS 16-238
§ 32.025 ENERGY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the Energy Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of five members who shall be residents of
the municipality or the two-mile zoning jurisdiction. To the greatest extent
possible, the Commission shall represent a cross-section of the municipality in
that it is comprised of members from different professions and occupations.
   (C)   The members of the Commission shall serve a three-year term of office
beginning at the first meeting in December of the year of their appointment, or
until a successor is appointed or the member is reappointed; except that the
members first taking office shall serve, as designated by the Mayor at the time
of appointment, two for a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and
one for a term of two years, and any member appointed to fill a vacancy shall
serve for the remainder of the term for which his or her predecessor was
appointed.
   (D)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of a majority of the members of the
City Council, may remove any member of the Commission. The Commission and its
members shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion
of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the
Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
At the Commission’s first regular meeting of each calendar year, the Commission
shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson, and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during
regular business hours.
   (E)   The Governing Body shall fund the Energy Commission from time to time
as may be agreed to by the Governing Body from the general fund of the
municipality. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of doing business. The Commission shall meet at least once each quarter
of the calendar year and shall be subject to the open meeting statutes of the
State of Nebraska. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson, or any three members of the Commission.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Commission to make and adopt plans for the
energy development and conservation of the municipality, including any areas
outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgement, bear relation to
the planning of the municipality and within the two-mile zoning jurisdiction of
the municipality.
   (G)   All actions by shall be subject to the review and supervision of the
Governing Body. The Commission shall be responsible for making the reports and
performing any other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to tome,
designate. No member of the Energy Commission shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission.
(1972 Code, § 2-213) (Ord. 745, passed 8-6-1985; Ord. 824, passed 10-6-1992;
Ord. 2007-9, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 32.026 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2101.01 a Community
Development Agency for the City of Schuyler, Nebraska.
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council are hereby designated to be the Community
Development Agency for the city.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be the Chairperson of the Community Development
Agency; the president of the City Council shall be the Vice Chairperson; and
the City Clerk shall be the Secretary of the Community Development Agency.
   (D)   The Community Development Agency shall have the power and authority to
exercise those powers and authority granted to a community redevelopment
authority under Neb. RS 18-2101 to 18-2144. The Community Development Agency
shall also have the power and authority to do all community development
activities, and to do all things necessary to cooperate with the federal
government in all matters relating to community development program activities
as a grantee, or as an agent or otherwise, under the provisions of the Federal
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended through the Housing
and Community Development Amendments of 1981. The Community Development Agency
may levy taxes for the exercise of such jurisdiction and authority and may
issue general obligation bonds, general obligation notes, revenue bonds, and
revenue notes including those general obligation and revenue refunding bonds
and notes for the purposes set forth in such sections and under the powers
granted to any community redevelopment authority described therein.
   (E)   All assets and liabilities of the Community Redevelopment Agency of
the City of Schuyler are hereby assigned to the Community Development Agency of
the City of Schuyler, which shall assume said liabilities.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 2-19-2013)
TREE BOARD
§ 32.040 TREE BOARD; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees as a total resource.
   COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. The official representative of the Tree Board and
as such is responsible for administration of the community forestry program.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all area owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between the property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or
ways within the city.
(1972 Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.041 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A CITY TREE BOARD.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City of
Schuyler, Nebraska, which shall consist of five members, citizens, and
residents of this city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval
of the City Council.
(1972 Code, § 2-302) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.042 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board
shall be for only one year, and the term of two members of the first Board
shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term
of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
(1972 Code, § 2-303) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.043 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation.
(1972 Code, § 2-304) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.044 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel, and develop and/or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, replacement, maintenance, and removal or disposition
of trees and shrubs parks, along streets and in other public areas. The plan
will be presented annually to the City Council and upon their acceptance and
approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the
City of Schuyler, Nebraska.
   (B)   The Tree Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report, and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within scope of its work.
(1972 Code, § 2-305) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.045 OPERATION.
   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(1972 Code, § 2-306) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.046 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The City of Schuyler, Nebraska, shall maintain a list of recommended trees
for planting in public areas. The purpose of this listing will be to maintain
diversity in total tree population. This list shall be available to residents
of the city upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private
properties. The list of recommended trees shall be updated periodically to
reflect new developments or species that will affect the population of the
community forest.
(1972 Code, § 2-307) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.047 SPACING.
   Spacing of street trees will not be restructed, except as it may affect §
32.048.
(1972 Code, § 2-308) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.048 DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.
   (A)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than
six feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than three feet from a sidewalk, driveway, or
street.
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street
corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or
curblines.
   (C)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet from any
fireplug.
   (D)   Special permission must be obtained from the Tree Board or the
Community Forest Manager when planting street trees within ten feet of any
point on a line on the ground immediately below any overhead utility wire, or
within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line, or other utility.
(1972 Code, § 2-309) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.049 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within right-of-way or bounds of all streets, alleys,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure the public
safety.
   (B)   The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of it nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is seriously affected with any fatal disease.
   (C)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
(1972 Code, § 2-310) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.050 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall plant a street tree or any other tree in the public right-
of-way without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk. There will be no
fee for the permit.
(1972 Code, § 2-311) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.051 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this section at
the determination of the Tree Board or the Community Forest Manager.
(1972 Code, § 2-312) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.052 CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
   Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of eight feet must be maintained over
walkways and a clearance of 12 feet must be maintained over streets. Property
owners are responsible for trees on their own property as well as trees on the
public way that abuts their property.
(1972 Code, § 2-313) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.053 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DISEASED TREES. Those trees that may constitute a hazard to life and
property by reason of the condition of the trees and/or represent a potential
threat to other trees within the city due to the presence of a fatal disease
including Dutch elm disease and chestnut blight.
   (B)   Trees within public right-of-way. The city may remove or cause to be
removed any dead or diseased tree within the public right-of-way and prior to
removal the Tree Board will notify, in writing, by certified mail, the owner of
the tree by sending notice describing the condition of the tree and notice of
removal to the owner of record based on the last known address of the owner of
record as shall be established by the records of the county taxing authority.
Removal shall be the responsibility of the owner or owners of the real estate
where the dead or diseased tree is located and removal shall be accomplished
within 60 days of notification. The Tree Board may, with the approval of the
Council, cause to be removed at city expense, dead or diseased trees from the
public right-of-way. A statement of the cost of removal shall be recorded by
the Tree Board with the City Clerk giving a proper description of the lands
where on the dead or diseased tree or trees were removed and the City Clerk
shall certify to the County Treasurer the costs which shall then be added to
the county tax lists as an assessment and charged against the lands, which
charge shall be a lien upon the lands and be collected the same as all other
taxes regularly levied. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to abridge the
right of appeal from the finding of the City Council and Tree Board to the
District Court.
   (C)   Trees on private land within the city. The city may remove or cause to
be removed any dead or diseased tree located on private property within the
city limits but prior to removal the Tree Board shall serve written notice by
certified mail upon the owner of the real estate whereon the dead or diseased
tree or trees are located to have the dead or diseased tree or trees removed
within ten days. Upon failure of the land owner to comply with the notice of
the Tree Board within ten days, the City Clerk shall give notice, in writing,
to the land owner or his or her agent, fixing a date for a hearing before the
City Council on the complaint previously entered, that the land owner or his or
her agent is maintaining a public nuisance by failing to remove the trees. The
notice shall fix a time not earlier than the next regular meeting of the City
Council and in any event not less than five days after the date of the notice,
when the owner or agent may appear before the City Council and a hearing shall
be had upon the matter. If at the hearing it shall appear that the trees named
in the notice are in a condition contrary to this subchapter, the City Council
shall forthwith and at once declare the tree or trees a public nuisance and
make an immediate order for the removal of the trees. If the owner or agent
shall neglect or fail to comply with the order within 30 days after receipt of
the written notice, the City Council shall cause the same to be done. The cost
shall be paid from the general fund and a statement of the costs shall be
recorded by the City Council with the City Clerk giving a proper description of
the lands whereon the dead or diseased tree or trees is located and the City
Clerk shall certify to the proper county taxing authority the costs which shall
be included in making the county tax list as an assessment and charge against
the lands, which charge shall be a lien upon the lands and be collected the
same as all other taxes regularly levied. Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to abridge the right of appeal from the finding of the City Council to
the District Court.
(1972 Code, § 2-314) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.054 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street or park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
(1972 Code, § 2-315) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.055 INTERFERENCE WITH THE TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Tree Board or any of its representatives or agents, while engaging in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any
trees within the community forest, as authorized in this subchapter.
(1972 Code, § 2-316) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.056 ACCESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with
access to private property by the city or its representative in the legal
performance of any section of this subchapter.
(1972 Code, § 2-317) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.057 ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing any street tree, park tree or
other privately owned tree without first applying for and procuring a license.
The licensee fee shall be set by the Tree Board. No license shall be required
by any public service or employee doing the work in the pursuit of their public
service endeavors.
   (B)   Before license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance and meet other requirements set
by the Tree Board.
(1972 Code, § 2-318) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.058 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make final
decision.
(1972 Code, § 2-319) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
§ 32.059 CONSTITUTIONALITY.
   If any part of this subchapter is found to be unconstitutional, then only
that portion shall be declared void and the remainder of this subchapter shall
stand and the part so stricken shall be severed from this subchapter.
(1972 Code, § 2-320) (Ord. 768, passed 2-16-1988)
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 32.070 GENERAL; POSITIONS COVERED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Civil Service Commission to carry out the
duties assigned it by Neb. RS 19-1825 et seq., also known as the Civil Service
Act.
      (2)   The Civil Service Act shall apply only to full-time police officers
of the city, including any paid full-time Police Chief of the department, and
future appointees to the full-time positions. Full-time police officers shall
mean police officers in positions which require certification by the Nebraska
Law Enforcement Training Center, who have the power of arrest, who are paid
regularly by the city, and for whom law enforcement is a full-time career, but
shall not include clerical, custodial, or maintenance personnel.
   (B)   Position, creation, and elimination. All positions subject to the
Civil Service Act shall be created or eliminated by the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   Establishment of salaries and compensation. The Civil Service Act
shall not be construed to infringe upon the power and authority of the Mayor
and Council to establish salaries and compensation of all employees within the
compensation schedule or ranges established by the Mayor and Council for the
positions.
   (D)   Payment of compensation for services. No treasurer, auditor,
comptroller, or other officer or employee of the city shall, subject to the
Civil Service Act, approve the payment of or be in any manner concerned in
paying, auditing, or approving any salary, wage, or other compensation for
services to any person subject to the jurisdiction and scope of the Civil
Service Act unless the person to receive the salary, wage, or other
compensation has been appointed or employed in compliance with the Act.
   (E)   City’s duty to Commission. The Mayor and Council shall provide the
Commission with suitable and convenient rooms and accommodations and cause the
same to be furnished, heated, lighted, and supplied with all office supplies
and equipment necessary to carry on the business of the Commission and with the
clerical assistance as may be necessary. It shall be the duty of the city to
appropriate each fiscal year, from the general funds of the city, a sum of
money sufficient to pay the necessary expenses involved in carrying out the
purposes of the Act, including, but not limited to, reasonable fees for any
special counsel appointed by the Commission when the City Attorney is not
authorized by the Mayor to represent the Commission. The Mayor may establish
the hourly or monthly rate of pay of the special counsel. The city shall afford
the Commission, its members and employees all reasonable facilities and
assistance to inspect all books, papers, documents, and accounts applying or in
any way appertaining to any and all positions and employments subject to civil
service and shall produce the books, papers, documents, and accounts. All city
officers and employees shall attend and testify whenever required to do so by
the Commission, the accused, or the Mayor.
   (F)   Political fund contribution and political service. No person holding
any position subject to civil service shall be under any obligation to
contribute to any political fund or to render any political service to any
person or party whatsoever. No person shall be removed, reduced in position or
salary, or otherwise prejudiced for refusing so to do. No public officer,
whether elected or appointed, shall discharge, promote, demote, or in any
manner change the official rank, employment, or compensation of any person
under civil service, or promise or threaten to do so for giving, withholding,
or neglecting to make any contribution of money, services, or any valuable
thing for any political purposes.
   (G)   Obstructing examinations. No Commissioner or any other person shall by
himself or herself or in cooperation with one or more persons:
      (1)   Defeat, deceive, or obstruct any person in respect to the right of
examination according to the rules and regulations made pursuant to the Civil
Service Act;
      (2)   Falsely make, grade, estimate, or report upon the examination and
standing of any person examined or certified in accordance with the Act or aid
in so doing;
      (3)   Make any false representation concerning the same or concerning the
persons examined;
      (4)   Furnish any person any special or secret information for the
purpose of improving or injuring the prospects or chances of any person so
examined or certified to be examined or certified; or
      (5)   Persuade any other person or permit or aid in manner any other
person to impersonate him or her in connection with any examination,
application, or request to be so examined.
(1972 Code, § 2-401) (Ord. 962, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 32.071 CREATED.
   (A)   Generally. There is hereby created in the city a Civil Service
Commission which shall have three members who shall each be a citizen of the
United States, a resident of the city for at least three years immediately
preceding the appointment, and an elector of the county wherein the person
resides.
   (B)   Appointment of members. Three members of the Civil Service Commission
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Council. At the time
of any appointment, not more than two members of the Civil Service Commission,
including the one or ones to be appointed, shall be registered electors of the
same political party.
   (C)   Members’ term of office. The first persons appointed to the Civil
Service Commission shall be for terms of two years, four years, and six years
respectively. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for six years.
   (D)   Removal from office. Any member of the Civil Service Commission may be
removed from office for incompetency, dereliction of duty, malfeasance in
office, or other good cause by the Mayor, with the approval of the Council,
except that no member of the Civil Service Commission shall be removed until
written charges have been preferred, due notice given the member and a full
hearing had before the Mayor.
   (E)   Compensation of members. Members of the Civil Service Commission shall
serve without compensation.
   (F)   Meetings. The Civil Service Commission shall hold meetings as may be
required for the proper discharge of its duties.
   (G)   Chairperson. The Civil Service Commission shall annually elect one of
its members as Chairperson.
   (H)   Secretary and Chief Examiner. The Civil Service Commission shall
appoint a Secretary and Chief Examiner who shall keep the records of the
Commission, preserve all reports made to it, superintend and keep a record of
all examinations held under its direction and perform the other duties as the
Commission may prescribe. The Commission may merge the positions of Secretary
and Chief Examiner and appoint one person to perform the duties of both
positions. The Commission shall appoint the city’s Personnel Officer as
Secretary and Chief Examiner, if requested to do so by the Mayor. The Secretary
and Chief Examiner shall be subject to suspension or discharge upon the vote of
a majority of the appointed members of the Commission.
   (I)   Quorum. Two members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
   (J)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Commission shall adopt and promulgate procedural rules and
regulations which shall provide in detail the manner in which examinations may
be held and any other matters assigned to it by the Mayor. At least one copy of
the rules and regulations, and any amendments, shall be made available for
examination and reproduction by members of the public. One copy of the rules
and regulations and any amendments shall be given to each full-time police
officer.
      (2)   The Commission shall provide that all tests shall be practical and
consist only of subjects which will fairly determine the capacity of persons
who are to be examined to perform the duties of the position to which an
appointment is to be made and may include, but not be limited to, tests of
physical fitness and of manual skill and psychological testing.
      (3)   The Commission shall provide, by the rules and regulations, for a
credit of 10% in favor of all applicants for an appointment to any entry level
position, as defined by the Mayor, under civil service who, in time of war or
in any expedition of the Armed Forces of the United States, have served in and
been honorably discharged from the Armed Forces of the United States and who
have equaled or exceeded the minimum qualifying standards established by the
Mayor.
      (4)   The Commission may conduct an investigation concerning and report
upon all matters regarding the enforcement and effect of the Civil Service Act
and the rules and regulations prescribed.
      (5)   The Commission may inspect all institutions, departments,
positions, and employments affected by the Act to determine whether the Act and
all the rules and regulations are being obeyed. The investigations may be
conducted by the Commission or any Commissioner designated by the Commission
for that purpose. The Commission shall also make a like investigation on the
written petition of a citizen, duly verified, stating that irregularities or
abuses exist or setting forth, in concise language, the necessity for the
investigation. The Commission may be represented in the investigations by the
City Attorney, if authorized by the Mayor. If the City Attorney does not
represent the Commission, the Commission may be represented by special counsel
appointed by the Commission in any such investigation. In the course of the
investigation, the Commission, designated Commissioner, or Chief Examiner shall
have the power to administer oaths, issue subpoenas to require the attendance
of witnesses and the production by them of books, papers, documents, and
accounts appertaining to the investigation, and to cause the deposition to
witnesses, residing within or without the state, to be taken in the manner
prescribed by law for like depositions in civil actions in the courts of this
state. The oaths administered and subpoenas issued shall have the same force
and effect as the oaths administered by a District Judge in a judicial capacity
and subpoenas issued by the District Courts of Nebraska. The failure of any
person so subpoenaed to comply shall be deemed a violation of the Civil Service
Act and be punished as such. No investigation shall be made pursuant to this
section if there is a written accusation concerning the same subject matter
against a person in the civil service. The accusation shall be handled pursuant
to §
32.074.
      (6)   The Commission shall provide that all hearings and investigations
before the Commission, designated Commissioner or Chief Examiner shall be
governed by the Civil Service Act and the rules of practice and procedure to be
adopted by the Commission. In the conduct thereof, they shall not be bound by
the technical rules of evidence. No informality in any proceedings or hearing
or in the manner of taking testimony shall invalidate any order, decision,
rule, or regulation made, approved, or confirmed by the Commission, except that
no order, decision, rule, or regulations made by any designated Commissioner
conducting any hearing or investigation alone shall be of any force or effect
unless it is concurred in by a majority of the appointed members of the
Commission, including the vote of any Commissioner making the investigations.
      (7)   The Commission shall establish and maintain a roster of officers
and employees.
      (8)   The Commission shall provide for, establish, and hold competitive
tests to determine the relative qualifications of persons who seek employment
in any position, and as a result thereof, establish eligible lists for the
various positions.
      (9)   The Commission shall make recommendations concerning a reduction in
force policy to the Mayor and Council.
      (10)   The Commission shall keep the records as may be necessary for the
proper administration of the Civil Service Act.
      (11)   The Commission, upon request of the Mayor, shall establish and
maintain a list of names and addresses, for a period of time established by the
Mayor, of those eligible for appointment or promotion within the Department.
      (12)   The Commission, upon request of the Mayor, shall certify the names
of the persons who are the three highest on the eligible list, following the
most recent examination, and whose qualifications have been validated by the
Commission for the vacant position.
      (13)   The Commission shall begin and conduct all civil suits which may
be necessary for the proper enforcement of the Civil Service Act and of the
rules of the Commission. The Commission may be represented in the suits and all
investigations pursuant to the Act by the City Attorney if authorized by the
Mayor. If the City Attorney does not represent the Commission, the Commission
may be represented by special counsel appointed by it in any particular case.
(1972 Code, § 2-402) (Ord. 962, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 32.072 APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. All appointments to and promotions in the Police Department
shall be made solely on merit, efficiency and fitness, which shall be
ascertained by open competitive examinations and impartial investigation by the
Commission. Appointments shall mean all means of selecting, appointing, or
employing any person to hold any position or employment subject to civil
service. Promotion or demotion shall mean changing from one position to
another, accompanied by a corresponding change in current rate of pay. Position
shall mean an individual job which is designated by an official title
indicative of the nature of the work.
   (B)   Requirements for civil service position applicants.
      (1)   An applicant for a position of any kind under civil service shall
be able to read and write the English language, meet the minimum job
qualifications of the position as established by the Mayor, and be of good
moral character. An applicant shall be required to disclose his or her past
employment history and his or her criminal record, if any. Prior to certifying
to the Mayor the names of the persons eligible for the position or positions,
the Commission shall validate the qualifications of the persons.
      (2)   The Commission shall require applicants to submit a full set of his
or her fingerprints along with written permission authorizing the city to
forward the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation through the
Nebraska State Patrol, for identification.
   (C)   Filling of a vacant position.
      (1)   Considerations. If the Mayor, with the approval of the Council,
fills a vacancy in a position subject to the Civil Service Act, he or she shall
consider factors, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the employee;
         (b)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the applicant which are
necessary for the position;
         (c)   The performance appraisals of any applicant who is already
employed in the Department, including any recent or pending disciplinary
actions involving the employee;
         (d)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the Department
together with contracts, ordinances, and statutes related thereto;
         (e)   Required federal, state, or local certifications or licenses
necessary for the position; and
         (f)   The qualifications of the applicants who are already employed in
the Department and have successfully completed all parts of the examination for
the position. No person shall be reinstated in or transferred, suspended, or
discharged from any such position or employment contrary to the Civil Service
Act.
      (2)   Procedure for filling vacant positions. Whenever a position subject
to the Civil Service Act becomes vacant, the Mayor shall make requisition upon
the Commission for the names and addresses of the persons eligible for
appointment and may decline to fill the vacancy for an indefinite period. If
the Commission certifies fewer than three names for each vacancy to the Mayor,
the Mayor may, with approval of the Council, appoint one of the persons to fill
the vacancy, may decline to fill the vacancy, or may order that another
examination be held by the Civil Service Commission.
      (3)   Temporary Appointments. If a vacancy occurs and there is no
eligible list for the position or if the Commission has not certified the
eligible list, a temporary appointment may be made by the Mayor. The temporary
appointment shall not continue for a period longer than four months. No person
shall receive more than one temporary appointment or serve more than four
months as a temporary appointee in any one fiscal year.
(1972 Code, § 2-403) (Ord. 962, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 32.073 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   To enable the Mayor to exercise the choice in the filling of positions, no
appointment, employment, or promotion in any position in the service shall be
deemed complete until after the expiration of a period of six months from the
date of employment as may be provided in the rules of the Civil Service
Commission. The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, may terminate the
employment of any person appointed by him or her, if during the probationary
period upon observation or consideration of the performance of duty, the Mayor
deems the person unfit or unsatisfactory for service in the Department. The
Mayor, with the approval of the Council, may appoint one of the other persons
certified by the Commission and the person shall likewise enter upon the duties
until some person is found who is fit for appointment, employment, or promotion
for the probationary period provided and then the appointment, employment, or
promotion shall be complete.
(1972 Code, § 2-404) (Ord. 962, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 32.074 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Tenure of employment. The tenure of a person holding a position of
employment under the Civil Service Act shall be only during good behavior.
   (B)   Causes for disciplinary action. Any such person may be removed or
discharged, suspended with or without pay, demoted, reduced in rank, or
deprived of vacation benefits, compensation, or other privileges, except
pension benefits, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Incompetency, inefficiency, or inattention to or dereliction of
duty;
      (2)   Dishonesty, prejudicial conduct, immoral conduct, insubordination,
discourteous treatment of the public or a fellow employee, any act of omission
or commission tending to injure the public service, any willful failure on the
part of the employee to properly conduct himself or herself, or any willful
violation of the Civil Service Act or the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant to the Act;
      (3)   Mental or physical unfitness for the position which the employee
holds;
      (4)   Drunkenness or the use of intoxicating liquors, narcotics, or any
other habit-forming drug, liquid, or preparation to such an extent that the use
interferes with the efficiency or mental or physical fitness of the employee or
precludes the employee from properly performing the functions and duties of his
or her position;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony or misdemeanor tending to injure the
employee’s ability to effectively perform the duties of his or her position; or
      (6)   Any other act or failure to act which, in the judgment of the Civil
Service Commissioners is sufficient to justify the offender to be an unsuitable
and unfit person to be employed in the public service.
   (C)   Disciplinary action procedure.
      (1)   No employee in the civil service who shall have been permanently
appointed or inducted into civil service shall be removed, suspended, demoted,
or discharged, except for cause and then only upon the written accusation of
the Police Chief, or any citizen or taxpayer. This provision does not apply to
persons still in their probationary period as provided in §
32.073.
      (2)   The written accusation shall set forth the alleged misconduct
charges, or grounds for investigation against the employee. The written
accusation shall be filed by the complainant with the Secretary of the
Commission who shall cause a copy of the accusation to be delivered within 72
hours after the filing to the Police Chief, to the Mayor, and to the employee
personally or by certified mail, addressed to the employee at the residence
address of the employee shown in the personnel records. The Secretary of the
Commission shall cause a return showing the delivery or mailing to be executed
and filed in the Secretary’s office.
      (3)   The Police Chief shall have the authority to immediately suspend,
with pay, an employee against whom the written accusation has been filed,
pending the confirmation of the suspension, or a decision of the Mayor to
reinstate the employee, remove, demote, discharge, or suspend the employee,
with or without pay.
      (4)   Prior to the decision of the Mayor to reinstate the employee or
remove, demote, discharge, or suspend the employee, with or without pay, the
Police Chief shall within a reasonable period of time investigate the alleged
misconduct, charges or grounds against the employee and explain the basis of
the employer’s evidence to the employee and provide the employee an opportunity
to present his or her version of the circumstances which resulted in the filing
of the written accusation. If the Chief’s investigation reveals other
misconduct, charges, or grounds the Chief shall amend the written accusation to
include the other misconduct, charges, or grounds by filing an amendment to the
written accusation with the Secretary of the Commission who shall cause a copy
of the amended accusation to be delivered within 72 hours after the filing to
the Police Chief, to the Mayor, and to the employee personally or by certified
mail, addressed to the employee at the residence address of the employee shown
in the personnel records. The Secretary of the Commission shall cause a return
showing the delivery or mailing to be executed and filed in the Secretary’s
office. In the event that a Police Chief is being disciplined, the Mayor shall
follow the same procedures as are followed by the Police Chief in disciplining
employees under the Act. Upon completion of this procedure within a reasonable
period of time, the Police Chief shall recommend in writing to the Mayor that
the alleged misconduct, charges, or grounds set forth in the written accusation
be deemed:
         (a)   To be without merit;
         (b)   To not warrant disciplinary actions;
         (c)   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal,
demotion, discharge, or suspension, with or without pay, such as an oral or
written reprimand; or
         (d)   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge, or suspension with or
without pay.
      (5)   (a)   Within 20 calendar days after receiving the written
recommendation of the Police Chief, the Mayor shall decide to accept the
recommendation of the Police Chief, or shall decide that the alleged
misconduct, charges, or grounds for investigation against the employee set
forth in the written accusation to be deemed:
            1.   To be without merit;
            2.   To not warrant disciplinary action;
            3.   To warrant disciplinary action less severe than removal,
demotion, discharge, or suspension, with or without pay, such as an oral or
written reprimand; or
            4.   To warrant removal, demotion, discharge, or suspension with or
without pay.
         (b)   If a discharge is being recommended, Council approval shall be
required. The Mayor shall file a copy of his or her decision within 25 calendar
days after receiving the written recommendation of the Police Chief, with the
Secretary of the Commission, who shall cause a copy of the decision to be filed
within 72 hours after the filing to the Police Chief, and to the employee,
personally or by certified mail, addressed to the employee at the residence
address of the employee shown in the personnel records. The Secretary of the
Commission shall cause a return showing the delivery or mailing to be executed
and filed in the Secretary’s office.
      (6)   Any employee so removed, suspended, demoted, or discharged may,
within ten calendar days after receiving written notice of the Mayor’s
decision, file a written demand for an investigation and public hearing by the
Civil Service Commission. The employee shall file the request for the hearing
with the Secretary of the Commission and simultaneously send a copy of the
request to the Mayor. The failure to file the request with the Secretary of the
Commission within ten calendar days of receipt of notice of the action by the
Mayor shall constitute a waiver of the employee’s right to review by the Civil
Service Commission and the Mayor’s decision shall become final.
      (7)   Within ten calendar days of receipt of the employee’s notice of
appeal, the Mayor shall cause to be mailed or delivered the following notice to
the employee and the Secretary of the Civil Service Commission:
         (a)   A statement of the charge(s);
         (b)   The names of the witnesses who will be called on behalf of the
Mayor and a general statement of the nature of their testimony; and
         (c)   Copies of the documents to be introduced.
      (8)   Within ten calendar days of the filing of the written demand for an
investigation and public hearing by the Commission, the employee shall mail or
deliver the following upon the Mayor and the Commission:
         (a)   A response to the statement of the charge(s);
         (b)   The names of the witnesses who will be called on behalf of the
employee and a general statement of the nature of their testimony; and
         (c)   Copies of the documents to be introduced.
      (9)   Upon receipt of a written demand, the Commission shall conduct an
investigation. The Commission may be represented in the investigation and
public hearing by the City Attorney, if authorized by the Mayor. If the City
Attorney does not represent the Commission, the Commission may be represented
by special counsel appointed by the Commission for any such investigation and
hearing. The investigation shall consist solely of a review of the written
submissions of the Mayor and employee
to determine whether any individuals or documents should be subpoenaed by the
Commission for the subsequent public hearing before the Commission ultimately
to determine whether the Mayor acted in good faith for cause. Good faith for
cause shall mean that the action was not arbitrary or capricious and was not
made for political or religious reasons.
      (10)   The Commission shall schedule a public hearing no less than ten
nor more than 20 calendar days from the date of filing of the employee’s demand
for an investigation. The Commission shall notify the Mayor and employee in
writing at least five calendar days prior to the date of the hearing, of the
date, time, and place of hearing.
      (11)   The Mayor shall be permitted to appear in person and by counsel
and to present his or her case. The Mayor may present evidence by testimony and
documents and shall be permitted to cross-examine the employee’s witnesses. At
the hearing, the employee shall be permitted to appear in person and by counsel
and to present his or her defense. The employee may present evidence by
testimony and documents and shall be permitted to cross-examine the witnesses
called by the Mayor.
      (12)   The Commission may affirm the action taken by the Mayor if the
action is supported by a preponderance of the evidence. If the Commission finds
that the removal, suspension, demotion, or discharge was made for political or
religious reasons or was not made in good faith for cause, it shall order the
immediate reinstatement or reemployment of the employee in the position or
employment from which the employee was removed, suspended, demoted, or
discharged, which reinstatement shall, if the Commission in its discretion so
provides, be retroactive and entitle the person to compensation and restoration
of benefits and privileges from the time of the removal, suspension, demotion,
or discharge.
      (13)   After the hearing, in lieu of affirming the removal, suspension,
demotion, or discharge, the Commission may modify the order of removal,
suspension, demotion, or discharge by directing a suspension, with or without
pay, for a given period and the subsequent restoration to duty or demotion in
position or pay. No later than ten calendar days after the hearing, the
Commission shall certify its findings in writing to the employee and the Mayor
who shall enforce them.
(1972 Code, § 2-405) (Ord. 962, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 32.075 REDUCTION IN FORCE POLICY.
   (A)   Establishment. The Mayor and Council in establishing a reduction in
force policy shall consider the recommendations from the Civil Service
Commission, but shall not be bound by them. Prior to the adoption of a
reduction in force policy the Mayor and Council shall, after giving reasonable
notice to each Police Officer, by first-class mail, conduct a public hearing.
   (B)   Factors. The Mayor and Council shall adopt a reduction in force policy
which shall consider factors, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The multiple job skills recently or currently being performed by
the employee;
      (2)   The knowledge, skills, and abilities of the employees;
      (3)   The performance appraisal of the employee including any recent or
pending disciplinary actions involving the employee;
      (4)   The employment policies and staffing needs of the Department
together with contracts, ordinances, and statutes related thereto;
      (5)   Required federal, state, or local certifications or licenses; and
      (6)   Seniority.
(1972 Code, § 2-406) (Ord. 962, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 32.076 LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   A leave of absence with or without payment may be granted by the Mayor to
any person under civil service. The Mayor shall give notice of the leave to the
Commission. All appointments for temporary employment resulting from the leaves
of absence shall be made from the eligible list, if any, of the civil service.
(1972 Code, § 2-407) (Ord. 962, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of §§
32.001, 32.015 through 32.026, 32.040 through 32.059, or 32.070 through 32.076,
set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(1972 Code, § 2-501) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER DEPARTMENT
      
51.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
      
52.   WATER DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 50: SEWER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
50.01   Ownership
   
50.02   Application for permit
   
50.03   Mandatory hookup
   
50.04   Unlawful waste disposal
   
50.05   Licensed plumber
   
50.06   Installation procedure
   
50.07   Installation expense
   
50.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
50.09   Fees and collections
   
50.10   Classification
   
50.11   Service contracts
   
50.12   Special equipment
   
50.13   Manholes
   
50.14   Inspections
   
50.15   Roof drainage
   
50.16   Air conditioning
   
50.17   Improper use
   
50.18   Connection required; notice
   
50.19   Connection permit required
   
50.20   Authority to assess sewer charges
   
50.21   Sewer rates
   
50.22   Collection of sewer charges
   
50.23   Discontinuance of service; notice; contents
   
50.24   Use of revenue
   
50.25   Review of rates
   
50.26   Sewer layer’s license
   
50.27   Notification of rates
   
50.28   Definition of terms
   
50.29   Public sewers required; unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
50.30   Discharge of storm water and other unpolluted waters
   
50.31   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; flammable, toxic, corrosive, and
obstructive substances; preliminary treatment
   
50.32   Hazardous and prohibited discharges; specific prohibitions as
determined by Superintendent
   
50.33   Discharge of hazardous and prohibited substances; rejection,
pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee surcharge
   
50.34   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors; when required
   
50.35   Preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
50.36   Sampling stations; when required; installation and maintenance
   
50.37   Sampling of waters and wastes; method
   
50.38   Hazardous and prohibited substances; special exceptions permitted; use
fee surcharge
   
50.39   Unauthorized damaging of equipment; unlawful
   
50.40   Right of entry; authority of City Engineer and Utilities Superintendent
   
50.41   Private sewage disposal systems
   
50.42   City Engineer and Utilities Superintendent relieved from personal
liability
   
50.43   Hearing Board
   
50.44   Extension of existing sewer lines; fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns the municipal sewer system and operates the same
through the Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management and maintenance of the municipal sewer
system, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
tax shall be known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The official in charge of
sewers shall have the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and
shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. The Board of Public
Works shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary
and efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision and
review of the Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 3-501)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal utilities; rates, service, regulation, see Neb. RS 16-681
   Sewers, see Neb. RS 16-667 et seq.
§ 50.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Board of Public Works upon the blanks to be
furnished by the Utilities Superintendent. He or she may require any applicant
to make a service deposit in the amount as he or she deems necessary subject to
the review of the Governing Body. Sewer service may not be supplied to any
house or building except upon the written order of the chief sewer official.
The Department shall not supply sewer service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Board of Public Works;
provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation charges shall be
paid by the consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
   (B)   No person shall extend any sewer main without the approval of the
Utilities Superintendent, the City Engineer, and the Nebraska Department of
Health. All plans and specifications shall be reviewed by the City Engineer,
who shall set the grade for the sewer main extensions at the installing party’s
expense.
(Neb. 19-2701) (1972 Code, § 3-502) (Ord. 567, passed 6-7-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Sewers, see Neb. RS 16-667 et seq.
§ 50.03 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   Upon written notice by the chief sewer official, the property owner,
occupant, or lessee of any property adjacent to a sewer main shall without
delay cause the building to be connected with the sewer system and equipped
with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected shall be
connected with the sewer system at the time of its construction. In the event
that any property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse,
within a period of ten days after notice has been given to him or her to do so
by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general
circulation in the municipality, to make the connection, the Board of Public
Works shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost
thereof against the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the
manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
(1972 Code, § 3-503) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Sewers, see Neb. RS 16-667 et seq.
§ 50.04 UNLAWFUL WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Privies, cesspools, or septic tanks for the reception of sewage or
waste from a drain from any building shall only be permitted or allowed when
the sewer system is not available to the premises on which the privy, cesspool,
or septic tank is located. The sewerage system shall be considered to be
available for the purpose of this section when the system abuts the premises,
or runs within 200 feet of the premises upon which the privy, cesspool, or
septic tank is located. An exception to this requirement shall exist where the
municipality has extended a sewer system line unilaterally without the creation
of a sanitary sewer improvement district, and where the privy, cesspool, or
septic tank is already in existence or has previously been proposed.
   (B)   Cesspools and septic tanks when permitted or allowed, and all plumbing
connected therewith, shall be constructed and installed by licensed plumbers
subject to the same regulations applicable to connections to the Municipal
Sewerage System except in the matter of permit and inspection fees. The permit
shall be secured upon payment of a permit and inspection fee set by resolution
of the Board of Public Works. A Board of Public Works Inspector shall first
view the premises upon which the cesspool or septic tank is located, and may
withhold issuance of the permit until the owner of the premises repairs,
reconstructs, or rebuilds the septic tank or cesspool to make it conform to
applicable health and environmental rules and regulations, and further
provided, all the septic tanks and cesspools, now existing or hereafter sought
to be built, shall be constructed and installed or repaired or rebuilt
according to plans and specifications prepared by the Plumbing Inspector and
approved by the Board of Public Works. No privy, cesspool, or septic tank shall
be constructed or operated, except in conformity with the health and
environmental rules and regulations of the City of Schuyler, the rules and
regulations of the State of Nebraska, or any other applicable city, state, or
federal rule or regulation affecting health or environment.
   (C)   No new cesspool or septic tank shall hereafter be constructed or
installed except upon a permit secured after the permit fee is paid as in the
case of existing cesspools and septic tanks. All permit fees arising under this
section shall inure to the Sewer Maintenance Fund. In case any available
municipal sewer is provided later, the existing privy, cesspool, or septic tank
used on the premises must be abandoned forthwith when the sewer is installed,
except in the exception set forth above where the municipality extends the
sewer system without the creation of a district, and the drain from any
building shall be connected to the municipal sewer and the abandoned cesspool,
septic tank, or privy must then be cleaned and filled with fresh earth and
tamped in properly.
(1972 Code, § 3-504) (Ord. 820, passed 9-1-1992) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Health and sanitation, see Neb. RS 16-238
§ 50.05 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in or
conduct the business of sewer connection and house drainage, excavate any
trenches for sewer pipe, open, uncover, or in any manner make connection with
or lay any sewer drain, or attach to, modify or repair any appurtenances
thereto without first complying with the provisions governing plumbing licenses
and permits and without complying with the rules and regulations of the chief
sewer official; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to apply to
persons, firms, or corporations under special contract with the municipality
for the construction, extension, or repair of the municipal sewer system.
(1972 Code, § 3-505) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installation shall be done
under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations,
and specifications for the installation prescribed by the Board of Public
Works; provided, that the rules, regulations, and specifications have been
reviewed and approved by the Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 3-506) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer shall be required to pay the expense of procuring the materials
required as well as the services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all the
expense of installation including the tap fee prescribed by the Board of Public
Works and on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and at the office of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(1972 Code, § 3-507)
§ 50.08 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   All repairs or replacements to sewer pipes and other sewer appurtenances
except the sewer main shall be made by the customer at his or her expense.
Repairs and replacements to the sewer main shall be made by the municipality at
its expense; provided, that in the case of the disrepair of a sewer main
providing service to nonresidents, the entire cost of repair shall be paid by
the customer.
(1972 Code, § 3-508)
§ 50.09 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Board of Public Works has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the customers of the Sewer Department. All the fees shall be on file
for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk and at the office of
the Utilities Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty
of collecting the rental fees of the customers of the Sewer Department monthly
on the first day of each month. If a customer shall for any reason order the
service discontinued or shall remove himself or herself from the premises, the
amount due under the terms of this chapter, together with any rental fees and
charges in arrears, shall be considered as a delinquent sewer rental which is
hereby declared to be a lien upon the premise or real estate for which or from
which the sewer was used or supplied, and upon the refusal of the customer to
pay the delinquent sewer rental, it shall be collected by being placed upon the
assessment roll and tax books for collection. If the consumer shall neglect or
refuse to pay his or her bill on or before the tenth day of the succeeding
month after notice sewer service is used, it shall be considered delinquent,
and if not paid within seven days thereafter, the sewer service will be turned
off after seven-days’ notice by mail to the subscriber, and not turned on again
until all back fees and charges are paid, including any penalty charges which
the Board of Public Works may by resolution, prescribe; provided, that if the
delinquent customer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be the duty of the
Utilities Superintendent to notify the customer and the County Welfare
Department by certified mail of the proposed termination.
(1972 Code, § 3-509) (Ord. 515, passed 9-17-1974)
§ 50.10 CLASSIFICATION.
   The Board of Public Works may classify for the purpose of rental fees the
customers of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that the classifications
are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group
of consumers.
(1972 Code, § 3-510)
§ 50.11 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premises
where service is furnished, or if the premises is destroyed by fire or other
casualty, he or she shall at once inform the chief sewer official who shall
cause the sewer service to be shut off from the premises. If the customer
should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time
until the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of the
circumstances.
(1972 Code, § 3-511)
§ 50.12 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the chief sewer
official may require the customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within the maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review of
the Board of Public Works. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be
purchased and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation
at the customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a
special agreement or arrangement between the Board of Public Works and an
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental
fees or other charges.
(1972 Code, § 3-512)
§ 50.13 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(1972 Code, § 3-513) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 INSPECTIONS.
   The chief sewer official, or his or her authorized agents, shall have free
access at any reasonable hour to all parts of each premise and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(1972 Code, § 3-514)
§ 50.15 ROOF DRAINAGE.
   It is hereby declared unlawful to connect roof drains or to suffer or permit
roof drains to be connected in any manner with the sanitary sewer system of the
municipality. All roof drains now connected with the sanitary sewer system
shall be disconnected forthwith by a licensed plumber employed by the owner of
the premises under the supervision of the Plumbing Inspector and the connection
shall be thoroughly sealed.
(1972 Code, § 3-515) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 AIR CONDITIONING.
   No discharge from any air conditioning unit shall be permitted or allowed to
be made in any fixture or appliance connected with the sanitary sewer system.
Outlet water from the units shall be discharged or deposited in appliances
connected with storm sewers, or upon the premise of the owner or user of the
units or in any drain leading to any storm sewer, if the discharge or deposit
shall not prejudicially affect the public health or convenience.
(1972 Code, § 3-516) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 IMPROPER USE.
   No person shall throw or deposit or cause or permit to be thrown or
deposited in any vessel or receptacle connected with the public sewer, garbage,
hair, ashes, fruit, vegetables, peelings, refuse, rags, sticks, cinders, or any
other matter or thing whatever, except human excrement, urine, the necessary
closet paper, liquid slops, and drainage of the similar character.
(1972 Code, § 3-517) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 CONNECTION REQUIRED; NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Inspector to order all persons owning
property, any part of which abuts a street or alley in which a sewer is laid,
provided the sewer is less than 100 feet from the property line, to connect all
closets, urinals, sinks, lavatories, laundry tubs, bathtubs, and fixtures of
whatever kind and character in or on the property from which water is wasted,
with the sewer in the street or alley; all the persons shall make the
connections within 30 days after the service of notice as herein provided.
   (B)   The notice may be served by delivering the same personally to the
owner, or by registered mail addressed to the owner at his or her office or
place of residence, or by publication in a paper published and of general
circulation in the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage within the city limits on a property, any part of which abuts a street
or alley in which a sewer is laid.
(1972 Code, § 3-518) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service, and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Utilities Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee set by city policy for a residential or commercial building
sewer permit and for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no public sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Utilities Superintendent,
to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All the connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Utilities
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Utilities
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1972 Code, § 3-519) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS SEWER CHARGES.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the city’s
treatment works. The proceeds from the charges so derived will be used for the
purpose of operating, maintaining, and retiring the debt for the public
wastewater treatment works.
(1972 Code, § 3-520) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.21 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on his
or her use of the treatment works as determined by the water meter acceptable
to the city. Residential users who do not use the city water and do not have a
water meter shall be charged a flat rate. These users may pay for the
installation of a water meter acceptable to the city and they will be charged
for their water use based upon their actual use. Commercial and industrial
users not on the city water system shall be required to install a water or
wastewater meter acceptable to the city, when it is deemed necessary by the
Board of Public Works.
   (B)   For residential contributors, monthly user charges will be based on
average water usage during the winter months. If a residential contributor has
not established a winter water use average, his or her monthly user charge
shall be the median charge of all other residential contributors. For
industrial and commercial contributors, user charges shall be based on water
used during the current billing period. If a commercial or industrial
contributor has a consumption use of water, or in some other manner uses water
which is not returned to the wastewater collection system, the user charge for
that contributor may be based on the wastewater meter(s) or separate water
meter(s) installed and maintained at the contributor’s expense, and in a manner
acceptable to the city.
   (C)   For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength of
which is greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to the
normal user charge will be collected.
   (D)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase
in the cost of managing the effluent of the sludge from the city’s treatment
works, or any user which discharges any substance which singly or by
interaction with other substances causes identifiable increases in the cost of
operation, maintenance, or replacement of the treatment works, shall pay for
the increased costs. The charge to each such user shall be as determined by the
responsible plant operation personnel and approved by the Board of Public
Works.
   (E)   The user charge rates established by this chapter apply to all users,
regardless of their location, of the city’s treatment works. All users of the
sewers systems of the city agree to and shall be bound by the applicable
ordinances irrespective of such user location being within or outside the
corporate limits of the city.
(1972 Code, § 3-521) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.22 COLLECTION OF SEWER CHARGES.
   All users shall be billed monthly with the monthly billing being computed as
prescribed in §
50.21 and adjusted to the nearest $.01. The monthly billing shall be due and
payable on the first day of the month, with or without notice. If the consumer
shall neglect or refuse to pay their bill on or before the tenth day of the
month it shall be considered delinquent and if not paid within seven days
thereafter the water service will be turned off after seven-days’ notice,
excluding holidays and weekends, by first class mail to the subscriber, and not
turned on again until all back fees and charges are paid, including any penalty
charge which the Board of Public Works may, by resolution prescribe.
§ 50.23 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   Notice required by §
50.22 shall contain the following:
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company
shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility
service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may be disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's, physician's
assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility's service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
service made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 50.24 USE OF REVENUE.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and costs
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works which the city may, by ordinance, designate to be paid by the
user charge system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated
for operation and maintenance including replacement of the treatment works
shall be established by this chapter.
   (B)   That portion of the total user charge collected which is designated
for operation and maintenance including replacement purposes shall be deposited
in a separate nonlapsing fund known as the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account); and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made from the operation,
maintenance, and replacement revenue.
   (C)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Account and
the Replacement Account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes that those
designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance, and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(1972 Code, § 3-524) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.25 REVIEW OF RATES.
   The city will review the user charge system (at least every two years), and
revise user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the system generates
revenues to pay the costs of operation and maintenance including replacement;
and that the system continues to provide for the proportional distribution of
operation and maintenance costs including replacement costs and debt retirement
among users and user classes.
§ 50.26 SEWER LAYER’S LICENSE.
   The Clerk, upon receipt of $5 and a satisfactory surety company, or other
Clerk approved bond in the sum of $2,000, shall issue a license to any person
recommended by the Inspector, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, for
the laying of sewer connections from the public sewers in the streets or alleys
to a point of not less than four feet outside of any building in the city. This
license shall cover all excavation in the streets or alleys, the tearing up of
any pavements necessary, making connection to the sewer, laying of sewer pipe
connections, and backfilling of trenches, as prescribed in the Plumbing Code. A
sewer layer, so licensed, shall be permitted to take out all required permits
for the foregoing work, and shall pay all required inspection fees, as provided
in §
50.19. Nothing in this section shall be construed as permitting a licensed
sewer layer to do any work within any building or within four feet therefrom,
nor to make any connections to the water mains, or lay any water pipe service
to any properties within the city. The bond herein mentioned shall protect the
city from all damages, claims, or actions resulting from or arising out of any
work or negligence upon the part of the sewer layer or any of his or her
employees.
(1972 Code, § 3-526) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.27 NOTIFICATION OF RATES.
   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement of treatment works.
(1972 Code, § 3-527) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.28 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a building
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or other
drainage pipes inside the walls of any building.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Schuyler, Nebraska.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, or his
or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   HEARING BOARD. The Board appointed according to provisions of §
50.43.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from normal domestic wastewater.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 200 milligrams/liter and a suspended solids concentration of not more
than 200 milligrams/liter.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly, or severally with others, has legal
title to or charge, care, or control of in any capacity, of property.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PROPERTY. Any piece or portion of real estate, including all buildings and
structures located thereon, having a sewer or drainage system which immediately
or remotely discharges into a public sewer, natural outlet, or both.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is controlled by the Public Authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment facility.
   RESIDENCE. Property or that portion of property used exclusively as a
dwelling or living quarters by one or more natural persons.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from property, together
with the ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
the treatment (including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of the
compost, and land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment
systems before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the City of
Schuyler, Nebraska, or his or her authorized representative, deputy, or agent.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/or
installed by a user and approved by the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel for the passage of water either continuously or
intermittently.
(1972 Code, § 3-528) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.29 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality, or within two miles of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the municipality, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1972 Code, § 3-529) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the City Engineer or the Utilities Superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters shall be discharged, at the request
of the City Engineer or the Utilities Superintendent, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
(1972 Code, § 3-530) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE, AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, exterior
or interior foundation drainage or subsurface drainage, to any sanitary sewer.
Uncontaminated cooling water and unpolluted industrial process waters may be
discharged to a sanitary sewer only if expressly authorized by the Utilities
Superintendent;
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (5)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 200 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 200 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Utilities Superintendent, the
owner shall provide, at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 200 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 200 parts per million by weight; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
   (C)   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced
until the approvals are obtained in writing.
(1972 Code, § 3-531) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS
DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the into any
public sewer following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it
appears likely in the opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm
either the public sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an
adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb,
public property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to
the acceptability of these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration
to the factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-quarter
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing objectionable or toxic substances;
or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to the degree that any
such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment works
exceeds the limits established by the Superintendent for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in the concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(1972 Code, § 3-532) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.33 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
50.32, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(1972 Code, § 3-533) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.34 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided by the owner of the
property when, in the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except for the
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
(1972 Code, § 3-534) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.35 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1972 Code, § 3-535) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall, at the request of the City Engineer or the Utilities
Superintendent, install a suitable sampling station or stations upon each and
every building sewer or shall combine the building sewers into one common
building sewer upon which one sampling station shall be placed. The sampling
station or stations shall be furnished with the necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer or sewers to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastes. The sampling station or stations shall
be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the City Engineer or the Utilities Superintendent. The
sampling station or stations shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. The sampling equipment will be furnished and maintained by the
city.
(1972 Code, § 3-536) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.37 SAMPLING OF WATERS AND WASTES; METHOD.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the sampling station provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the sampling station. One copy of the latest edition of the volume
shall be kept on file in the office of the Department of Utilities of the city
for use and examination by the public. In the event no special sampling station
has been required, the sampling station shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer from the point at which the building
sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted
methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to
determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular
analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of
a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample should be taken. Normally,
but not always, composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined are
based upon periodic grab samples.)
(1972 Code, § 3-537) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.38 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE
FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
owner.
(1972 Code, § 3-538) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.39 UNAUTHORIZED DAMAGING OF EQUIPMENT; UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person unauthorized by the city to damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
(1972 Code, § 3-539) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.40 RIGHT OF ENTRY; AUTHORITY OF CITY ENGINEER AND UTILITIES
SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The City Engineer and the Utilities Superintendent shall be permitted
to enter any property where an effluent source is located other than residences
at any time, and residences at such times as may be provided for in other
sections as now existing in the Schuyler Municipal Code or as may hereafter be
amended, for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, or
testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter provided, that if the
property be occupied he or she shall first present proper credentials to the
occupant and request entry, explaining his or her reasons therefore, and, if
the property be unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner of the property and request entry, explaining his or her
reasons therefore. If the entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the
owner of the property cannot be found after due diligence, the City Engineer or
the Utilities Superintendent shall have recourse to every remedy provided by
law to secure lawful entry for the above stated purposes.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the City Engineer or the Utilities
Superintendent has reasonable cause to believe that waters or wastes of the
types referred to in §§
50.31 and
50.32 are being discharged from any property into a public sewer of natural
outlet, and has reasonable cause to believe that the discharge is so dangerous,
hazardous, or unsafe as to require immediate inspection to safeguard the public
health or safety, he or she shall have the right, using reasonable means
required, to effect the entry and make the inspection, whether or not
permission to inspect has been obtained. If the property be occupied, he or she
shall first present the proper credentials to the occupant and demand entry,
explaining his or her reasons therefore and the purpose of his or her
inspection. No person shall fail or refuse, after proper demand has been made
upon him or her as provided in this division (B), to promptly permit the City
Engineer or the Utilities Superintendent to make any inspection provided for by
this division (B). Any person violating this division (B) shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   The City Engineer and the Utilities Superintendent shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical oil,
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries, nor shall he or she have the
right to enter into areas where methods and/or processes area which are
entitled to protection as trade secrecy of the property owner beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (D)   While performing the necessary work on the property referred to in
this section, the City Engineer and the Utilities Superintendent shall observe
all applicable safety rules established by the owner of the property.
(1972 Code, § 3-540) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.41 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
50.18, or will not be available under this code, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of
this chapter, and any other federal, state, or local regulations.
   (B)   Before the commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Utilities
Superintendent. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information deemed necessary by the Utilities
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee set by city/utilities shall be paid
to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Utilities Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Utilities Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within one working day of the receipt of notice by the Utilities
Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the State of Nebraska. No permit shall be issued for any
private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is not sufficient to meet the requirements of Rule 10
and Rule 11 of Rules and Regulations for the Design, Operation and Maintenance
of Septic Tank Systems in Nebraska issued by the State of Nebraska Department
of Environmental Control and dated effective 12-27-1977.
   (E)   At such time as public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tank, cesspools,
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(1972 Code, § 3-541) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 CITY ENGINEER AND UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT RELIEVED FROM PERSONAL
LIABILITY.
   The city shall hold harmless the City Engineer and the Utilities
Superintendent, when acting in good faith and without malice, from all personal
liability for any damage that may occur to any person or property as a result
of any act required by this chapter or by reason of any act of omission of the
City Engineer and the Utilities Superintendent in the discharge of his or her
duties hereunder. Any suit brought against the City Engineer or the Utilities
Superintendent because of any such act or omission in the carrying out of the
provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the City Attorney through final
determination of the proceedings.
(1972 Code, § 3-542) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.43 HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   The Mayor of the city shall appoint a Hearing Board to arbitrate
differences between the City Engineer and/or Utilities Superintendent and any
person aggrieved by any decision of the City Engineer and/or the Utilities
Superintendent concerning the interpretations and execution of any provision of
this chapter. The Board shall be appointed within five days after request
therefore, setting forth the specific matter in dispute, has been filed with
the Mayor by the person. All costs of arbitration shall be divided equally
between the city and the person requesting the Board. The rate or amount of pay
to be received by the Board members shall be determined by the Mayor before the
Board convenes.
   (B)   All Hearing Boards shall be appointed ad hoc, but in selecting a given
Hearing Board the Mayor may appoint one or more members of any such prior-
appointed Board. The Mayor may consult with the City Engineer, the Utilities
Superintendent, and with the person requesting the Board concerning the
appointment of Board members, but he or she shall make a reasonable effort not
to appoint anyone who is employed by, retained by, or otherwise subject to
control or influence of the City Engineer, the Utilities Superintendent, the
person requesting the Board or the city. The Mayor’s decision as to choice of
Board members shall be final.
   (C)   One member of each Board shall be a registered professional engineer;
one member shall be a practicing sanitary engineer; one member shall be a
representative of industry or manufacturing enterprise; one member shall be a
lawyer; and one member shall be selected at large for his or her interest in
accomplishing the objectives of this chapter. No Board shall have any other
members.
   (D)   Each Hearing Board shall convene within ten days after it is appointed
and elect its Chair and such other officers as it desires from among its
members, and shall establish its own rules of procedure, provided that three
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and three
affirmative votes shall be required for final action on any matter acted upon
by the Board. The Board shall make specific findings and conclusions based upon
the testimony and evidence properly presented to it, and shall render its
decision based upon the findings and conclusions within 30 days after the date
the Board convenes, and at the end of the period of time the Board shall
automatically cease to exist. The decisions shall be in full resolve of the
dispute. Neither the Hearing Board nor any member thereof shall in any way be
liable to the city or to any person whomsoever for any such decision rendered
by it. The decision of the Board shall be binding upon the city and upon the
person requesting the Board and its decision may be appealed by either or both
parties to the District Court of Colfax County, Nebraska.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to preclude any
person aggrieved by any decision of the City Engineer or the Utilities
Superintendent concerning the interpretations and executions of any provision
of this chapter from appealing the decision to the District Court of Colfax
County, Nebraska.
(1972 Code, § 3-544) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980)
§ 50.44 EXTENSION OF EXISTING SEWER LINES; FEES.
   (A)   The municipality may extend existing sewer lines unilaterally without
the necessity of creating a sanitary sewer improvement district. In that case,
existing privies, cesspools, or septic tanks shall not be required to be
connected with the sanitary sewer system extension as long as the privy,
cesspool, or septic tanks are operated in conformity with all applicable city,
state, and federal rules and regulations dealing with health and environment.
If the existing privy, cesspool, or septic tank at any point fails to meet the
applicable health or environmental rules and regulations, the privy, cesspool,
or septic tank shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system. Abandonment of
the use of an existing privy, cesspool, or septic tank for a period of six
months or more shall be a discontinuance of the use which shall require
connection to an existing sanitary sewer line if the line is available.
   (B)   The municipality shall charge a hookup or connection fee which shall
be set by resolution of the municipality’s Board of Public Works, and approved
by the Governing Body of the municipality. The connection fee shall be
comparable in an amount to which would otherwise have been charged or levied
against the premises as if a sanitary sewer district had been created.
(1972 Code, § 3-545) (Ord. 819, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of this
chapter, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform the duty, or who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500 for each violation, together with the costs of prosecution. Each
day that a violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
      (2)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of this
chapter, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform the duty, or who shall
violate any of the provisions of the sections, may be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the duty or of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction of the duty or
violation. The person shall, within the period of time, perform the duty or
cease the violation; otherwise, for each day after the period of time that the
person fails, neglects or refuses to perform the duty or violates the
provisions, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as above provided.
      (3)   In addition to, or in lieu of, other remedies provided the city by
this chapter to correct or abate a failure, neglect or refusal to perform a
duty imposed by this chapter or a violation of a provision of this chapter, the
City Engineer or the Utilities Superintendent may revoke any permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter and may effect the discontinuation of both
the services, to the owner of the property. The City Engineer or the Utilities
Superintendent may also institute injunction or other appropriate action or
proceeding. However, with the exception of repeated nonaccidental discharges to
the public sewers of waters or wastes of the types referred to in subsections,
the City Engineer or the Utilities Superintendent shall give the owner at least
15-days’ written notice before revoking the permit or discontinuing water or
sewer service; except that if within the 15-day period the owner requests a
hearing before the Hearing Board as hereinafter provided, the City Engineer or
the Utilities Superintendent shall not revoke the permit or discontinue the
water or sewer service unless authorized by the Board or by a court of
competent jurisdiction upon appeal from the Board.
      (4)   Any person who accidentally discharges into a public sewer any
waters or wastes of the types referred to in §
50.31 shall immediately notify the Utilities Superintendent by the quickest
means available, supplying him or her with all information pertaining to the
discharge as the Utilities Superintendent may request to enable the Utilities
Superintendent to take proper action to protect persons, public sewers, and
sewage treatment processes which may be endangered by the discharge. The
accidental discharge shall not constitute a violation of this title, provided
that prompt report of the discharge is made to the Utilities Superintendent as
aforesaid.
      (5)   Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the provisions of this
chapter, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform the duty, or who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or who is responsible for an
accidental discharge as aforesaid, may be held liable to the city for any
expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason thereof.
(1972 Code, § 3-543)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(1972 Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 640, passed 5-20-1980; Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Contracts and terms
   
51.02   Ownership
   
51.03   Consumer’s application
   
51.04   Authorized installation
   
51.05   Installation expense
   
51.06   Meters
   
51.07   Unlawful meter tampering
   
51.08   Fees and collections
   
51.09   Minimum rates
   
51.10   Municipal electric system; delinquent payments
   
51.11   Discontinuance of service; notice; contents
   
51.12   Classification
   
51.13   Restricted use
   
51.14   Electrical service contracts
   
51.15   Nonresident service
   
51.16   Posting signs
   
51.17   Trimming trees
   
51.18   Inspections
   
51.19   Destruction of property
   
51.20   Insurance
   
51.21   Specifications and materials
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The municipality, through its Board of Public Works, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to the
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, the Board of Public Works may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations,
and rates for electric service, hereinafter named, in this chapter shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by
the Board of Public Works. Without further formality, the making of application
on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to the applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
municipality, to which both parties are bound. If customer should violate any
of the provisions of the contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that
the Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, Utilities Superintendent, or his
or her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the
building or place of the violation and no further connection of electric
service for the building or place shall again be made save or except by order
of the Superintendent or his or her agent.
(1972 Code, § 3-601)
§ 51.02 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the Board of Public Works. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the municipal electrical
system may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Electrical Distribution System and
shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. The Board of Public
Works shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and
efficient management of the electrical system subject to the supervision and
review of the Governing Body. The Board of Public Works shall by resolution set
the rates to be charged for services rendered and shall file the same in the
office of the Municipal Clerk and the office of the Utilities Superintendent
for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(1972 Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal utilities, see Neb. RS 16-681 et seq.
   Power plants; construction, see Neb. RS 16-673
§ 51.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefor to the Board of Public Works upon blanks to be furnished by the
Utilities Superintendent for that purpose. Any applicant may be required to
make a service deposit in the amount as deemed necessary subject to the review
of the Governing Body. Electricity may not be supplied to any house or building
except upon the written order of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be
unlawful for any customer to resell any electrical energy furnished him or her
by the municipality.
(1972 Code, § 3-603) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 AUTHORIZED INSTALLATION.
   All meters, meter boxes, wires, and other appurtenances necessary to connect
any consumer with the municipal power lines shall be provided and installed at
the expense of the municipality by municipal employees only. All the equipment
shall remain the property of the municipality.
(1972 Code, § 3-604)
§ 51.05 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of installation and equipment up to and including the electrical
meter shall be the responsibility of the municipality for residential services.
Commercial and industrial services shall be the responsibility of the consumer
from the transformer location. The expense of installation and wiring from the
meter and/or transformer to the points of distribution shall be the
responsibility of the consumer. Maintenance and replacement expense shall be
the responsibility of the consumer. The cost of repairing and replacing the
meter shall be the responsibility of the municipality.
§ 51.06 METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one time each month. Should a
customer’s meter get out of repair or fail to register properly, the customer
will be charged for electric current during the time when the meter is out of
order or repair on the basis of monthly consumption during the same month of
the preceding year; provided, if no basis for comparison exists or if
circumstances have been materially altered then the customer shall pay the
amount as reasonably fixed by the Superintendent or by the cashier of
utilities.
(1972 Code, § 3-606)
§ 51.07 UNLAWFUL METER TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any scheme, device, or
contrivance for the purpose of evading the proper service and registration on
any meter to employ any scheme or device whereby he or she may obtain current
which does not pass through the meter furnished him or her by the municipality
through its Board of Public Works. Finding lighting apparatus attached to a
power meter or any device in or near any meter which causes the same to
register incorrectly shall be prima facie evidence of the intent of the
occupier of the premise, or of the customer, to convert electric current to his
or her own use, which is hereby declared unlawful, and the person convicted of
violation of the same shall be punished as hereinafter provided; and, if it
shall appear to the Superintendent or his or her agents that any light or power
meter shall have been tapped or tampered with, he or she is hereby empowered to
install or cause to be installed, at customer’s expense, a meter installed in
iron conduit mechanically sealed in closed meter box accessible only to the
Superintendent or his or her agents. The Superintendent is also empowered at
any time at the expense of the municipality to move any light or power meter to
the outside of any building, if, in his or her opinion, it will prove
beneficial or advantageous for the municipality to do so.
(1972 Code, § 3-607) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Board of Public Works has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by electrical consumers for the use of electricity. All rates shall be on
file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk and the office
of the Utilities Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall bill the
consumers and collect all money received by the municipality on the account of
the municipal electrical system.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1972 Code, § 3-608)
§ 51.09 MINIMUM RATES.
   All electrical consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the electricity in which case he or she
shall not be liable thereafter for electrical service until the electricity is
turned on again.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1972 Code, § 3-609)
§ 51.10 MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC SYSTEM; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Department of Utilities shall mail statements for electrical
service to customers on or before the last working day of the month. The net
amount billed shall be due and payable on the first day of the month after
statements have been mailed, with or without notice. All customers shall pay
the net amount billed to the Department of Utilities at its office. If the
customer shall neglect or refuse to pay their bill on or before the tenth day
after the payment becomes due, the payment shall become delinquent and the
customer shall pay the gross amount billed. In those cases where a bill becomes
delinquent, the Department of Utilities shall notify the delinquent customer in
writing of the fact that their payment is considered delinquent, and that their
service is subject to be disconnected. If payment is not received at the
Department of Utilities Office within seven days after the notice of
delinquency is given, then the Department shall have the authority to
disconnect the electrical service until payment is made, along with payment of
a reconnection fee.
   (B)   No customer shall have his or her service disconnected unless the
Department of Utilities first gives written notice by first-class mail to the
customer whose service is proposed to be terminated. The first-class mail shall
be conspicuously marked at to its importance. Service shall not be disconnected
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days. Any customer who has previously been
identified as a welfare recipient to the Department of Utilities by the
Department of Health and Human Services shall be given notice by certified mail
and notice of the proposed termination shall also be given to the Department of
Health and Human Services. Notice shall be sufficient if directed to the
address provided the Department of Utilities by the customer.
   (C)   In landlord-tenant situations, the owner or landlord may make a
written request that service not be disconnected. In that case, the owner-
landlord shall be responsible for payment of the electricity consumed on the
premises, whether or not the landlord-owner contracted for the service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605) (1972 Code, § 3-610) (Ord. 987, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 51.11 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   Notice required by §
51.10 shall contain the following:
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company
shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility
service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may be disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's, physician's
assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility's service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
service made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 51.12 CLASSIFICATION.
   The Board of Public Works shall have the authority to classify customers for
the purpose of setting electrical rates. No electric service shall be furnished
to any customer at any other rate than that provided in the schedule of rates
prescribed by the Board of Public Works and filed in the office of the
Municipal Clerk and the office of the Utilities Superintendent. There shall be
no discrimination in rates as between customers using equal amounts of current
for the same purpose under the same conditions. No flat rates except for
contracts pertaining to railroad crossing lights shall be allowed.
(1972 Code, § 3-611)
§ 51.13 RESTRICTED USE.
   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment, and machinery to do so. The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue the service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The municipality shall use due
care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the municipality has no control and the
municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1972 Code, § 3-612)
§ 51.14 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premise where
service is furnished in his or her name, or if the premise is destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent
who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from the premise. If the
consumer should fail to give the notice, he or she shall be charged for all
electricity used on the premise until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise
advised of the circumstances.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1972 Code, § 3-613)
§ 51.15 NONRESIDENT SERVICE.
   The Board of Public Works may, with the permission of the Governing Body,
have the power and authority to contract with any person or other city to sell
electric current for light, heat, and power purposes beyond the corporate
limits when it is beneficial to the municipality to do so. The cost of
extending the lines of the electrical system beyond its borders shall be paid
by the municipality out of the net earnings of the electrical system.
(1972 Code, § 3-614)
§ 51.16 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack, or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures, or equipment of the municipal electrical system any
objects, apparatus, sign, poster, advertisement, or banner without written
permission from the Utilities Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 19-1404) (1972 Code, § 3-615) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 TRIMMING TREES.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before doing
the work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities Superintendent or the
Board of Public Works and apply for a permit to do the work and shall follow
any and all rules and regulations which he or she may prescribe for doing the
work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing the trees or
branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and
receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes necessary to
protect the lines or property of the electrical system, the Governing Body
shall have the power to order cut and remove any overhanging branches, or limbs
of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(1972 Code, § 3-616) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premise and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, the
inspections may take place at any time.
(1972 Code, § 3-617)
§ 51.19 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(Neb. RS 28-512) (1972 Code, § 3-618) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 INSURANCE.
   The municipality hereby agrees to replace or repair meters that fail to
register accurately or otherwise fall into disrepair. All customers of the
system shall keep all service meters and supply wires insured for the benefit
of the municipality against fire or other casualty and hereby designate the
Superintendent, his or her agent or attorney in fact to collect from the
insurance carrier the reasonable value of the meter or supply wire and deduct
the value from payment to be made to the insured under the policy, and provided
further, if the customer carries no insurance on the premises or place where
the meter is set, the customer hereby consents and agrees to reimburse the
municipality for the replacement value of the meter or supply wire in the event
of destruction by fire or otherwise.
(1972 Code, § 3-619)
§ 51.21 SPECIFICATIONS AND MATERIALS.
   All poles, wires, transformers, and other electrical equipment shall be of
the quality and installed in the manner as the Board of Public Works may
prescribe, or a may be required in the Municipal Electrical Code. In all cases
where the required materials or installation procedures have not been
specifically prescribed, or where it is unreasonable to comply literally with
any of the regulations, the Utilities Superintendent may modify the regulations
subject to the review of the Board of Public Works in the interest of the
public health and safety.
(1972 Code, § 3-620) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(1972 Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 52: WATER DEPARTMENT
Section
   
52.01   Water contract
   
52.02   Terms; defined
   
52.03   Ownership
   
52.04   Consumer’s application
   
52.05   Installation procedure
   
52.06   Licensed plumber
   
52.07   Installation expense
   
52.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.09   Meters
   
52.10   Fees and collections
   
52.11   Discontinuance of service; notice; contents
   
52.12   Minimum rates
   
52.13   Single premise
   
52.14   Restricted use
   
52.15   Rates for non residents
   
52.16   Fire hydrants
   
52.17   Pollution
   
52.18   Water service contracts
   
52.19   Inspection
   
52.20   Destruction of property
   
52.21   Leaks
   
52.22   Specifications
   
52.23   Sprinkler systems
   
52.24   Interconnections
   
52.25   Unlawful turning on
   
52.26   Restrictions during fire
   
52.27   Hose regulations
   
52.28   Replacement by plumber
   
52.29   Placement of private wells, septic tanks, and other potential sources
of contamination in reference to municipal water wells
   
52.30   Backflow and cross-connection prevention; definitions
   
52.31   Backflow and cross-connection prevention; water service connection
   
52.32   Backflow and cross-connection prevention; type of protection required;
installation and testing
   
52.33   Backflow and cross-connection prevention; violations, penalties, and
appeals
   
52.34   Water conservation plans
   
52.35   Mandatory hookup
   
52.36   Connection required; notice
   
52.37   Authorized representative relieved from personal liability
Wellhead Protection Area
   
52.65   Establishment of Wellhead Protection Area
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality through its Board of Public Works, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a city commercial main now is or may hereafter be
laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside
the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to law, the
Board of Public Works may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to the consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the municipality, to which the contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of the contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the Board of Public Works may hereafter adopt, the
Superintendent of Utilities, or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the
water service from the building or premise or place of such violation. No
further connection for water service to the building, premise, or place shall
again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(1972 Code, § 3-401)
§ 52.02 TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. The term MAIN is hereby defined to be any pipe other than a supply or
service pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying water to, and disbursing
the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. The term SEPARATE PREMISES is hereby defined to be more
than one consumer procuring water from the same service or supply pipe. The
second premise may be a separate dwelling, apartment, building, or structure
used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. The term SERVICE PIPE is hereby defined to be any pipe
extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock at or near the lot line to
and beyond the property line of the consumer to the location on the premises
where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. The term SUPPLY PIPE is hereby defined to be any pipe tapped
into a main and extending from there to a point at or near the lot line of the
consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock is located.
(1972 Code, § 3-402)
§ 52.03 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns the Municipal Water Department and operates the same
through the Board of Public Works. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal
Water Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the
custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
direct management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall
faithfully carry out the duties of his or her office. The Board of Public Works
shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and
review of the Governing Body. The Board of Public Works shall set the rates to
be charged for services rendered by resolution and shall file them in the
office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, and 19-1305) (1972 Code, § 3-403)
§ 52.04 CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Board of Public Works upon the blanks to be furnished by the
Utilities Superintendent for that purpose. The Utilities Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as he or she
deems necessary subject to the review of the Governing Body. Water may not be
supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the written order of
the Utilities Superintendent. The Department shall not supply to any person
outside the corporate limits water service without special permission from the
Board of Public Works; provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe,
and supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be
construed to obligate the municipality to provide water service to non-
residents
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1972 Code, § 3-404)
§ 52.05 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for
the installation by the Board of Public Works; provided, that the rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
Governing Body.
   (B)   No person shall extend any water main without the approval of the
Utilities Superintendent, the City Engineer and the Nebraska Department of
Health. All plans and specifications shall be reviewed by the City Engineer,
who shall set the grade for the water main extension at the installing party's
expense.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1972 Code, § 3-405) (Ord. 567, passed 6-7-1977) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.06 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any
of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any
connection with or extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water
from the system until the plumber or pipefitter shall have first complied with
the licensing and permit requirements of the municipality. All plumbing shall
be skillfully done, and in the manner required by the Board of Public Works.
The licensed plumber shall be at all times subject to the inspection and
approval of the Utilities Superintendent and it shall be further unlawful to
cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1972 Code, § 3-406) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of providing water service to the place of distribution shall be
paid entirely by the consumer. The consumer shall pay a connection/tap fee set
by resolution of the Board of Public Works and on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk which shall compensate the municipality for the cost of tapping
the main. It shall be unlawful for any person other than an employee of the
Municipal Water Department to tap a water main. The consumer shall be required
to pay the expense of procuring the services of a licensed plumber and shall
pay the cost of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching, and the necessary
labor to bring water service from the water main to the place of disbursement;
provided that the municipality shall supply and install the water meter at the
expense of the municipality. All water meters shall be owned by the
municipality and shall be installed according to the specifications prescribed
by the Board of Public Works and the Utilities Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (1972 Code, § 3-407)
§ 52.08 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   All repairs to the pipe and other appurtenances leading from the commercial
main to the place of distribution shall be paid by the consumer; provided, that
the meter shall be repaired by the municipality at its expense. The Board of
Public Works, through its Superintendent of Utilities, or his or her agents,
shall have the exclusive power to repair and test all meters. All repairs and
tests of water meters belonging to the municipality or to a consumer shall be
made by the regular employees of the Board of Public Works and/or an
independent testing service. If any water meter in service is beyond repair,
worn out, and unfit for further use, the Board of Public Works shall replace
the water meter at the expense of the municipality. The Board reserves the
right to test any water meter at any time. The consumer is hereby granted the
reciprocal right to have his or her water meter tested by the Board any
reasonable number of times upon request, if the consumer shall have reason to
believe that the meter is registering inaccurately. The expense of testing by
an independent testing service shall be the responsibility of the consumer,
unless the registering inaccuracy is high usage, then it shall be the
responsibility of the Board. All water meters shall be insured by the consumer
for the benefit of the municipality and in the event of the destruction by fire
or other casualty of any water meter, the consumer shall reimburse the
municipality for the reasonable value of the meter so destroyed. Maintenance of
the commercial main shall be the responsibility of the municipality. In the
event that the meter is damaged through the negligence of the consumer, it
shall be his or her responsibility ro repair or replace the meter.
(1972 Code, § 3-408)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal utilities; rate, regulations, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.09 METERS.
   All water meters shall be read at least one time each month. Should a
consumer’s meter get out of repair or fail to register properly, the consumer
shall be billed and charged for water during the time the meter is out of order
or repair on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of the
preceding year; provided, that if no basis for comparison exists, the customer
shall be charged the amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(1972 Code, § 3-409)
§ 52.10 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Board of Public Works has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
the fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal
Clerk and the office of the Utilities Superintendent. Water service meter
readings shall be computed and bills made up for their collection by the Board
of Public Works, on or about the first day of each month when same are due. All
consumers shall pay in net cash to the Utilities Superintendent at his or her
office in the Utilities Building the amount due the municipality for water
service. All bills for water service shall be due on the first date of the
month succeeding that in which service is used. If the consumer shall neglect
or refuse to pay his or her bill on or before the tenth day of the succeeding
month after which water is used, it shall be considered delinquent, and if not
paid within seven days thereafter the water service will be turned off after
seven-days’ notice, excluding holidays and weekends, by first class mail to the
subscriber, and not turned on again until all back fees and charges are paid,
including any penalty charge which the Board of Public Works may, by resolution
prescribe; provided, that if the delinquent customer is a known welfare
recipient, it shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent to notify the
customer and the County Welfare Department by certified mail of the proposed
termination.
(1972 Code, § 3-410) (Ord. 516, passed 9-17-1974; Ord. 986, passed 4-13-2004)
§ 52.11 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   Notice required by §
52.10 shall contain the following:
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company
shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility
service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may be disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's, physician's
assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility's service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
service made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615) (Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-5-2021)
§ 52.12 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(1972 Code, § 3-411)
Statutory reference:
   Rates, regulations, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.13 SINGLE PREMISE.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or suffer them to take
water from his or her premise, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by
means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so
that the water will pass through the meter or while passing through the meter
to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(1972 Code, § 3-412) Penalty, see §
52.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal utilities; rate, regulations, see Neb. RS 16-681
§ 52.14 RESTRICTED USE.
   The Governing Body or the Board of Public Works may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premise in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1972 Code, § 3-413)
§ 52.15 RATES FOR NON-RESIDENTS.
   The Board of Public Works, with the permission of the Governing Body, shall
have the authority to contract with persons beyond the corporate limits for the
purpose of supplying water to the non-residents. For the furnishing of water
service beyond its corporate limits, the Board of Public Works may establish
special rates with the persons without regard to the rates specified in the
resident schedule; provided, that the contracts made with non-residents shall
be uniform so far as they affect the users of equal amounts of water under such
contracts.
(1972 Code, § 3-414)
§ 52.16 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or an agent of the Board of Public Works, to open or
attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water from the them, or in any
manner to interfere with the hydrants. No hydrants except the public fire
hydrants or public drinking fountains shall be placed within the limits of any
streets. No drinking fountain shall be so constructed as to have openings by
which it can be used as a source of domestic supply.
(1972 Code, § 3-415)
§ 52.17 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536) (1972 Code, § 3-416) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premise where
service is furnished, or if the premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty,
he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the premise. If the consumer should fail to
give the notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premise until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of the
circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1972 Code, § 3-417)
§ 52.19 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access at any reasonable time, or if an emergency exists, at any
time, to all parts of each premise and building to, or in which, water is
delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures, and other portions
of the system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or unnecessary waste
of water.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (1972 Code, § 3-418)
§ 52.20 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(1972 Code, § 3-419) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 LEAKS.
   If any leak or break in any supply pipe or service pipe shall occur, the
Board of Public Works, through its Superintendent, or his or her agent, shall
forthwith shut off water to said premises until the leak or break is repaired
by the consumer.
(1972 Code, § 3-420)
§ 52.22 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All pipes and other appurtenances connected with the municipal water system
shall meet minimum standards set by the Board of Public Works prior to
installation. Any nonconforming materials or appurtenances shall be removed
immediately upon proper notice by the Utilities Superintendent.
(1972 Code, § 3-421) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   Proprietors of business establishments will be permitted to connect the
places by larger pipes with hydrants and hose couplings, with the water mains,
for fire mains or sprinkler systems, at their own expense, upon application to
the Board of Public Works, and under the supervision of its Superintendent or
his or her agents, and will be allowed to use the water in the mains or systems
for fire purposes only.
(1972 Code, § 3-422)
§ 52.24 INTERCONNECTIONS.
   All interconnections with the water system including any well on the premise
of the consumer or any source of water supply other than the waterworks system
and connected with any service pipe or plumbing of a consumer, shall be
constructed and maintained in a manner which shall conform with the
requirements of the Board of Public Works, and shall be subject to
discontinuance by order of the Board.
(1972 Code, § 3-423) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.25 UNLAWFUL TURNING ON.
   Water will not be turned on in any house or private service pipe except upon
the order of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent.
Plumbers are strictly prohibited from turning the water into any service pipe,
except on the order or permission of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agent. This rule shall not be construed to prevent any plumber
from admitting water to test pipes, and for that purpose only. No person,
except the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her agent, shall be any device
turn on water for use on any premise after the same shall have been shut off
for nonpayment of bills or for any other cause.
(1972 Code, § 3-424) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.26 RESTRICTIONS DURING FIRE.
   All persons using water shall keep their fixtures closed during any fire and
shall be responsible for any damage or injury that may result to others from
the improper use of the water.
(1972 Code, § 3-425) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 HOSE REGULATIONS.
   No hose or toilet shall be used unless water is furnished through a meter.
The right is reserved to suspend the use of fountains and hose for sprinkling
yards and gardens whenever in the opinion of the Utilities Superintendent the
public exigency may require it.
(1972 Code, § 3-426) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 REPLACEMENT BY PLUMBER.
   All supply or service pipe, when leaking or out of order shall be replaced
or repaired by the plumber constructing the work during the 12-months’
maintenance period provided in his or her bond or policy of insurance and,
after the period shall have expired, all replacements and repairs to supply or
service pipes or any attachment thereto shall be made by the consumer. Should
any consumer fail, neglect, or refuse to take steps to replace his or her
service pipe or supply pipe, after being notified in writing by the Board of
Public Works to do so forthwith, the service pipe may be cut off at the curb
cock until the service pipe is satisfactorily repaired or until new service
pipe is installed.
(1972 Code, § 3-427)
§ 52.29 PLACEMENT OF PRIVATE WELLS, SEPTIC TANKS, AND OTHER POTENTIAL SOURCES
OF CONTAMINATION IN REFERENCE TO MUNICIPAL WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Municipal water wells of the City of Schuyler are wells owned by the
Department of Utilities of the city and intended to provide water for the
public water supply system. None of the following potential sources of
contamination shall be located, constructed, or modified within the minimum
horizontal distance set forth below from a municipal water well:
Description Minimum Distance in Feet
Description                            Minimum Distance in Feet
Water well, for any purpose            1,000
Absorption or disposal field for waste 500
Cesspool                               500
Dump                                   500
Feed lot or feed lot runoff            500
Chemical or petroleum product storage  500
Septic tank                            500
 
   (B)   These minimum setbacks may be waived by the City Council if
recommended by the Board of Public Works, and a finding is made by the Board of
Public Works that the waiver would not endanger the Schuyler municipal water
supply.
(1972 Code, § 3-428) (Ord. 844, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of the backflow and cross-connection prevention policy.
   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood rim of the receptor.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER (AVB). A device with a gravity opening poppet air
opening, designed to admit atmosphere into the downstream side of the unit
under a no-flow condition, to prevent back siphonage.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. Any person designated by the Schuyler Department
of Utilities to administer their cross-connection policy and ordinance.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water used or available for use other than the
public water supply.
   BACK PRESSURE. A pressure in a plumbing system greater than the supply
pressure that can cause a reversal of flow within that system.
   BACK SIPHONAGE. Backflow induced by a less than atmospheric pressure within
a piping system.
   BACKFLOW.  The abnormal reversal of flow in a water system that could allow
a foreign material to enter a potable water system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY APPROVED. A complete assembly, including proper
shut-off valves, specifically designed and laboratory tested for performance to
prevent the reversal of water flow and that has been accepted for use within
the jurisdiction having authority.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT.  The protection of the public water supply by installing a
cross-connection control device or air gap separation on the water service line
to a facility or as an installation within equipment handling potentially
hazardous materials.
   CONTAMINATION. Any material that, if it entered a water system, would render
it a hazard to human or animal health.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid, or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply, due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   DHHS.  The Department of Health and Human Services of the State of Nebraska.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A backflow prevention device consisting of two
independently acting check valves, internally force loaded to a normally closed
position between two tightly closing shut-off valves, and with means for
testing for tightness.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. The potential risk to public health and the adverse
effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   Health. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates, a real or potential danger to the health and well-being
of the consumer.
      (2)   Plumbing. A plumbing type cross-connection in. a consumer's potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air gap,
or backflow device.
      (3)   Pollution. The material in question would cause a degradation of
potable water by causing taste, odor, or color, but would not present a hazard
to health.
      (4)   System. The material in question could cause severe damage in
piping and/or appurtenances of a plumbing system if backflow occurred.
   ISOLATION. The practice of installing a cross-connected control device or
air gap at every opening from a water distribution system, downstream of the
water meter.
   LICENSED PLUMBER. A person who has obtained the appropriate license from the
City of Schuyler to perform plumbing related work within the city limits.
   POLLUTION. A material that, if it entered a potable water system, could
degrade the esthetic property of the water with taste, color or odor, but would
not be hazardous to human or animal health.
   POTABLE WATER. A water proven to be proper for drinking, culinary, or body
contact by the health agency in authority.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (PVB). A backflow prevention device consisting of a
spring loaded check valve, a spring loaded poppet air opening, upstream and
downstream resilient shut off valves and two properly located test cocks.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A publicly owned water system supplying water to
the general public which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary, and domestic
purposes and meets the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Health and
the drinking water standards.
   REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW PREVENTER (RP). A backflow prevention device
consisting of two independently acting check valves, internally force loaded to
a normally closed position and separated by an intermediate chamber (or zone)
in which there is an automatic relief means of venting to atmosphere internally
loaded to a normally open position between two tightly closing shut-off valves
and with means for testing for tightness of the checks and opening of relief
means.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service
connection means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER DEPARTMENT.  A department within the Schuyler Department of Utilities.
(1972 Code, § 3-429) (Ord. 878, passed 5-6-1997; Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 52.31 BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION; WATER SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to protect the public water supply
system of the city from the possibility of contamination by isolating real or
potential sources of contamination or pollution which may backflow into the
public water supply system. This policy provides for the maintenance of a
continuing program of cross-connection control which will systematically and
effectively prevent the contamination or pollution of the public water supply
system. The Department of Utilities shall be responsible for the implementation
of the backflow prevention program as outlined in this policy.
   (B)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections exist and where an
auxiliary water supply may enter the public water supply system. The actual or
potential cross-connections will be abated or controlled in accordance with
this policy and as required by DHHS. This shall apply to all premises serviced
by the public water supply system.
   (C)   On request by the Department of Utilities, the consumer shall conduct
or cause to be conducted periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her
premises and provide the results to the Department of Utilities, to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections in the consumers water
system. The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
Department of Utilities for the conduction of surveys and investigations, of a
frequency as determined by the Department of Utilities, of water use practices
within a consumers water supply system through which contaminants of pollutants
could backflow into the public water supply.
   (D)   On request by the Department of Utilities, the consumer shall furnish
information on water use practices within the consumer's premises. If the
consumer refuses to submit the proper information or to cooperate in obtaining
it, the Department of Utilities shall treat the premises as if no appropriate
cross-connection survey has been completed, and the consumer shall considered
in violation of §§
52.30 through
52.33 and the penalties as stated in §§
52.30 through
52.33 may apply and the consumer may be required to install an approved
backflow prevention device as required by §§
52.30 through
52.33.
   (E)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumers water
supply system when, in the judgment of the Department of Utilities, a health,
plumbing, pollution, or system hazard exists.
   (F)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow within any premises
where, in the judgment of the Department of Utilities, the nature and extent of
activities on the premises, or the materials used in connection with the
activities or materials stored on the premises, would present an immediate and
dangerous hazard to health should a cross-connection occur, even though the
cross-connections may not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is
required to be installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following
situations:
      (1)   Premises having auxiliary water supply;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not a cross-connection exists;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (5)   Premises which due to the nature of the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (6)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply system, or where a cross-connection
could reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of
process waters and cooling waters; and
      (7)   Premises where toxic or hazardous material is used or handled.
   (G)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities if required by the Department of Utilities or its authorized
representative of the Nebraska Department of Health to protect the public water
supply system unless all hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have
been eliminated or corrected by other methods to the satisfaction of the
Department of Utilities or DHHS:
      (1)   Agricultural chemical facilities;
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems, wells;
      (3)   Premises having water recircling systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (4)   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, and health clubs;
      (5)   Bulk water loading facilities;
      (6)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      (7)   Chemical and petroleum processing storage plants;
      (8)   Chill water systems, ice machines and compressors;
      (9)   Fire protection systems;
      (10)    Food or beverage processing plants;
      (11)   Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites;
      (12)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, and medical buildings;
      (13)   Irrigation and lawn sprinkling systems;
      (14)   Laundries and dry cleaners;
      (15)   Metal de-greasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, dye
and metal processing or production;
      (16)   Multi-storied buildings greater than three stories in height;
      (17)   Packing houses;
      (18)   Power plants;
      (19)   Premises having radioactive materials such as laboratories,
industries, and hospitals;
      (20)   Rendering plants;
      (21)   Schools, universities, and colleges;
      (22)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or storm water
pumping stations;
      (23)   Soft drink dispensers;
      (24)   Testing laboratories, film laboratories, and film processing
laboratories;
      (25)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feedyards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stockyards, and pet grooming salons; and
      (26)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connection.
(1972 Code, § 3-430) (Ord. 878, passed 5-6-1997; Ord 2012-03, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 52.32 BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION; TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED;
INSTALLATION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The type of protection required by this policy shall depend on the
degree of hazard that exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
backflow prevention device shall be installed where a public water supply
system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a system hazard
or health hazard.
      (2)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where a
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that would
cause only esthetic degradation of potable water, such as taste, odor, or
color, and constitute a health hazard.
      (3)   An approved reduced pressure backflow prevention device shall be
installed at the service connection where there exists a plumbing hazard.
      (4)   In the case of any premises where, because entry is restricted and
makes it impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-connection survey
of the consumers water system, a reduced pressure backflow prevention device
shall be installed at the service connection.
      (5)   An approved atmospheric vacuum breaker may be used where it is not
subject to back pressure, although it must be located at least six inches above
the highest downstream outlet. There can be no downstream valving. All
downstream flow must grade away from the device to assure no back pressure. It
cannot be used where water flow is expected to be continuous for 12 or more
hours.
      (6)   An approved pressure vacuum breaker may be used where it is not
subject to back pressure, although it must be located at least 12 inches above
the highest downstream outlet. It can have downstream valving and can be used
under constant pressure.
   (B)   Any backflow prevention device shall be of a model and size approved
by the Department of Utilities and shall appear on the current list of approved
backflow devices established by DHHS.
   (C)   Permitted Backflow Assemblies, Devices and Methods are described in
Table 1 as maintained within the Department of Utilities backflow and cross
connection prevention policy, as amended, and Approval Standards for the
Approved Backflow Prevention Devices are described in Table 2 as maintained
within the Department of Utilities backflow and cross-connection prevention
policy, as amended.
   (D)   If, in the judgment of the Department of Utilities, an approved
backflow prevention device is required, the consumer shall follow these
guidelines:
      (1)   Shall obtain and have installed by a licensed plumber the approved
backflow prevention device(s) within 90 days of notice;
      (2)   Shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the
authorized representative and according to manufacturer's recommendations;
      (3)   The authorized representative shall inspect and approve all
installations of the required backflow prevention devices;
      (4)   The consumer shall be responsible for the costs of purchasing,
installing, testing, and maintaining of the backflow prevention device unless
the Department of Utilities agrees otherwise;
      (5)   Testing of the required backflow devices shall be done by a
Nebraska State Certified Grade VI Water Operator, on an annual basis;
      (6)   Annual testing of lawn sprinkler systems applies only to systems
that have provisions of injecting toxic substances including lawn chemicals,
otherwise testing is required once every five years; and
      (7)   Results of all tests and repairs shall be filed with the Department
of Utilities within seven days of completion.
   (E)   Existing backflow prevention devices installed prior to the effective
date of this policy will be deemed satisfactory unless the authorized
representative feels the device was installed or maintained incorrectly
according to the guidelines established in this policy.
(1972 Code, § 3-431) (Ord. 878, passed 5-6-1997; Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-3-2012)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 BACKFLOW AND CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION; VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, AND
APPEALS.
   (A)   The Department of Utilities shall deny, discontinue or impose a fine
of $100 per day, with every day considered a new violation, for any water
service to said premises. The Department of Utilities on a case-by-case basis,
considering completion of premises cross-connection surveys, will determine
whether to impose a fine or discontinuation of said service. These penalties
will be imposed on the water service to any premises wherein:
      (1)   Any backflow prevention device required by §§
52.30 through
52.33 is not installed, tested or maintained in a manner acceptable to the
Department of Utilities.
      (2)   It is discovered that the backflow prevention device has been
removed or by-passed.
      (3)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises.
      (4)   The Department of Utilities is denied entry to determine compliance
with these regulations.
      (5)   If the cross-connection survey is not completed and returned to the
Department of Utilities within 14 days after postmarking.
   (B)   The authorized representative shall have the authority to issue any
order consistent with the provisions of this policy in order to protect the
public health and safety. Any order of the Department of Utilities shall
clearly state the nature of the order, compliance requirements and set a
reasonable date by which compliance must be met.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works is hereby appointed as a hearing board to
hear differences between the authorized representative and the consumer on
matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.33 by the authorized representative. Any consumer aggrieved by being
required to pay the expense of installing, furnishing, testing, and/or
maintaining a backflow prevention device may, within ten days of the act or
event causing the grievance, file a written notice of appeal with the
Department of Utilities. The Board of Public Works shall hear all appeals and
shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the decision or
order of the authorized representative. The decision shall be final, subject
only to any remedy which the aggrieved party may have at law or equity. Appeals
shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the appeal.
   (D)   In addition, any violation of §§
52.30,
52.31, or
52.32 may be punished pursuant to the provisions of §
52.99.
(1972 Code, § 3-432) (Ord. 878, passed 5-6-1997; Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-3-2012)
§ 52.34 WATER CONSERVATION PLANS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “City of Schuyler Water
Conservation Plan.”
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      WATER. Water taken from the City of Schuyler municipal water system.
      WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY. A declaration by the Mayor of the City of
Schuyler that a water shortage exists.
   (C)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
individuals, legal entities, and their agents who use water as defined in this
section connected to the City of Schuyler municipal water system. The
curtailments and restrictions of water uses provided for by this section shall
be implemented upon a written declaration at the time of a water shortage
emergency by the Mayor, and shall remain in effect until the time as the water
shortage emergency declaration is terminated by the Mayor, or City Council. The
Mayor and Council shall act with the advice of the Utilities Superintendent.
   (D)   Stage One Water Watch. The Stage One Water Watch may take effect if
one of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   A major fire requiring extended use of water;
      (2)   A major water main break or the disabling of a major water main due
to construction; or
      (3)   The use of water usage for two consecutive days of over 1,600,000
gallons per day.
   (E)   Stage Two Water Warning. A Stage Two Water Warning may take effect if
one or more of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Loss of water wells due to low water table (drawing air into the
pump);
      (2)   Water use for three consecutive days of over 1, 900,000 per day;
and/or
      (3)   Major equipment failure, overhead storage, or loss of one of our
wells due to natural or human-made disaster.
   (F)   Stage One Water Watch; actions available.
      (1)   The Mayor or designee requests voluntary reductions in water use;
      (2)   Accelerate public information efforts to teach and encourage
reduction in water use;
      (3)   Notify major water users and work with them to achieve voluntary
water use reduction;
      (4)   Prohibit city government use of water for street washing, vehicle
washing, and all other non-essential uses;
      (5)   Request a reduction in landscape watering by city government;
      (6)   Request that no new plantings or new seedlings be started during
this stage;
      (7)   Request no landscape watering between 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.; and
      (8)   Determine the effects on large customers and notify them of the
impact. Advise customers of actions taken within the City of Schuyler and
solicit implementation of voluntary reduction of water use.
   (G)   Stage Two Water Warning; actions available.
      (1)   Landscaping water restrictions will be implemented. Parcels with
odd-numbered addresses will be permitted to irrigate on Mondays, Wednesdays,
and Saturdays only. Parcels with even-numbered addresses, or no addresses, will
be permitted to irrigate only on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sundays. There will
be no watering on Fridays.
      (2)   Landscaping installations on residential or commercial parcels that
have been in place for 30 days or less shall not be subject to the three-day a
week limitation.
      (3)   There shall be no restrictions on firefighting or medical uses.
Hydrant flushing shall be done only on an emergency basis.
      (4)   Publicly owned facilities and large private facilities may submit a
water use plan to the Utility Superintendent, that while considering the
manpower restraints on the entity, balances the same against the policies of
water conservation such as evaporation avoidance and spreading out the times of
irrigation. The Utility Superintendent may approve or reject the plan, or
approve the same with modifications.
      (5)   Filling is permitted for new and existing recreational facilities
and pools only with the permission of the Utility Superintendent.
      (6)   The penalty for the violation of any of the foregoing water
restrictions shall be $100 for the first offense; $200 for a second offense;
and $500 for the third and subsequent offenses. In addition, the city may
install a water flow restrictor in the case of two or more offenses, or may
disconnect the violator from the city water system. A violation shall be deemed
to be committed for each day the violation occurs.
   (H)   Exceptions to this section. The Mayor, with the advice of the
Utilities Superintendent, shall have the authority to permit a reasonable use
of water in any case necessary to maintain adequate health and sanitation
standards, or when needed to perform maintenance and repair of the City of
Schuyler’s water system.
   (I)   Violations. Any person violating this section shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of §
52.99.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 2-15-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   Upon written notice by the Superintendent of th Department of Utilities, the
property owner, occupant, or lessee of any property adjacent to a public water
supply main shall without delay cause the building to be connected by a service
line to the water supply system. Every building hereafter erected shall be
connected with the water system at the time of its construction. In the event
that any property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse,
within a period of ten days after notice has been given him or her to do so by
registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation
in the municipality, to make the connection, the Board of Public Works shall
have the power to cause the same to be done to assess the cost thereof against
the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner provided
for collection of other special taxes and assessments.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 CONNECTION REQUIRED; NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Inspector to order all persons owning
property, any part of which abuts a street or alley in which a public water
supply main is laid, provided the water is less than 100 feet from the property
line, to connect by service line to the water supply main in the street or
alley; all the persons shall make the connections within 30 days after the
service of notice as herein provided.
   (B)   The notice may be served by delivering it personally to the owner, or
by registered mail addressed to the owner at his or her office or place of
residence, or by publication in a paper published and of general circulation in
the city.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE RELIEVED FROM PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The authorized representative shall be relieved from personal liability. The
city shall hold harmless the authorized representative when acting in good
faith and without malice, for all personal liability for any damage that may
occur to any person or property as a result of any act required or authorized
by §§
52.30 through
52.33, or by reason of any act or omission of the authorized representative in
the discharge of his or her duties hereunder. Any lawsuit brought in
relationship to the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.33 shall be defended by the city, or the city's insurance carrier, if any,
through final determination of such proceeding.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 4-3-2012)
WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA
§ 52.65 ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   Definitions. WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and subsurface
area surrounding a public water supply well or well field, supplying a public
water supply system, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move
toward and reach such water well or well field.
   (B)   The City of Schuyler, Nebraska, hereby designates a Wellhead
Protection Area for the purpose of protecting the public water supply system.
The boundaries of the Wellhead Protection Area are based upon the delineation
map published by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality on June 24,
2014. The boundaries of the Wellhead Protection Area are set forth in Ordinance
2015-08 and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
   (C)   A copy of the map of the Wellhead Protection Area for the city is on
file and shall be kept in the office of the Department of Utilities.
(Ord. 2015-08, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(1972 Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
75.   SNOWMOBILES
      
76.   ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Glass; pointed objects
   
70.02   Signs; defacing or interfering with
   
70.03   Signs; unauthorized display
   
70.04   Passing; hindrance
   
70.05   Driving abreast
   
70.06   Following; distance
   
70.07   Following; fire apparatus
   
70.08   Funeral processions
   
70.09   Overloading front seat or obstructing driver; prohibited
   
70.10   Dragging; rope, chain
   
70.11   Riding; outside vehicle
   
70.12   Speed; maximum
   
70.13   Speed; public places
   
70.14   Speed; near schools
   
70.15   Drunken driving; penalty
   
70.16   Accident; driver’s duty
   
70.17   Emergency; regulations
   
70.18   Police; enforcement
   
70.19   Police; refusal to obey
   
70.20   Police; traffic officers
   
70.21   Summons; destruction
   
70.22   Reckless driving; willful
   
70.23   Reckless driving
   
70.24   Careless driving
   
70.25   Negligent driving
   
70.26   Passing limitations
   
70.27   Carrying passengers in cargo areas of pickup trucks or other vehicles
prohibited
   
70.28   Child passengers; use of restraint system or occupant protection system
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns,
nails, tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of, or
containing, glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass
upon any street, the owner or person in charge of the glass, or the person
responsible for the breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be
removed, from the street.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (1972 Code, § 5-602) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct, or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) (1972 Code, § 5-603) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SIGNS; UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or display upon, or in view
of any street, any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to be, is
an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic sign or signal which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every prohibited sign,
signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and any police
officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed,
without notice.
(Neb. RS 60-6,127) (1972 Code, § 5-604) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PASSING; HINDRANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until completely passed by
the overtaking vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,133) (1972 Code, § 5-605) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing.
(Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308) (1972 Code, § 5-606) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,140) (1972 Code, § 5-607)
§ 70.07 FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into, or park the
vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire
alarm.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183) (1972 Code, § 5-608) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls, or vehicles carrying United States
mails shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege, except with the
permission of a police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-6,140 and 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-609) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OVERLOADING FRONT SEAT OR OBSTRUCTING DRIVER; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when
there is in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to
obstruct the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to
interfere with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in such a position as to
interfere with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides or to interfere with the
driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(1972 Code, § 5-610) (Ord. 939, passed 2-6-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 DRAGGING; ROPE, CHAIN.
   No person shall permit any rope, strap, chain, or other article to drop
behind any vehicle while in use on the streets, except persons operating
vehicles transporting gasoline, benzene, or other flammable materials.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(1972 Code, § 5-612) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 SPEED; MAXIMUM.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other
place within the corporate limits under the jurisdiction of the municipality at
a rate of speed greater than 25 mph in any residential district, and 20 mph in
any business district, unless a different maximum rate of speed is specifically
permitted by ordinance. In the case that the Council designates a speed not
specified in this title, signs shall be posted throughout the regulated zone.
   (B)   The speed zone commencing immediately with the city corporate limits
on East Ninth Street and West Ninth Street and East Twenty-Second Street of the
City of Schuyler, Colfax County, Nebraska, shall be designated at 35 mph,
irrespective of whether or not it is a residential district. The speed limit
shall continue inward within the City of Schuyler until the very next speed
zone sign designating a different speed limit.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190) (1972 Code, § 5-613) (Ord. 601, passed 5-16-1978; Ord. 757,
passed 3-3-1987) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 SPEED; PUBLIC PLACES.
   Vehicles approaching railway stations, churches, public building, or crowded
spaces must do so in a cautious manner, and always on the proper side of the
street.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190) (1972 Code, § 5-614) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 SPEED; NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of 15 mph past the premises, and the driver shall stop at all stop signs
located at, or near, the school premises, and it shall be unlawful for the
driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where the stop signs are located
at, or near, the school premise.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190) (1972 Code, § 5-615) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 DRUNKEN DRIVING; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual physical
control of, any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or
of any drug. Any person who shall operate or be in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or of any
drug, shall be deemed guilty of a crime, and upon conviction thereof, the
person shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, and shall be ordered
by the court as part of the judgment of conviction not to drive any motor
vehicle for any purpose for a period of not less than 30 days nor more than one
year from the date of the payment of satisfaction of the fine. For purposes of
this section, the determination of whether an individual is under the influence
of either alcohol or drugs shall be prescribed in the Nebraska Revised
Statutes.
(Neb. RS 60-6,196 through 60-6,203) (1972 Code, § 5-616) (Ord. 905, passed 11-
2-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 ACCIDENT; DRIVER’S DUTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon a public
highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name, address, and the registration number of his
or her vehicle, and exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the
person struck, or the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in the accident reasonable assistance,
including the carrying of the person to a physician or surgeon for medical or
surgical treatment if it is apparent that the treatment is necessary, or is
required by the injured person.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident, whether upon the
public highway, private road, or private drive, resulting in damage to
property, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident; and
      (2)   Give his or her name, address, and the registration number of his
or her vehicle, and exhibit his or her operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the
owner of the property struck, or the driver or occupants of any other vehicle
involved in the collision.
(Neb. RS 39-6,104.01 and 60-696) (1972 Code, § 5-617) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 EMERGENCY; REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
regulations to cover emergencies.
(Neb. RS 60-435) (1972 Code, § 5-618)
§ 70.18 POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
   The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary,
temporarily divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and
convenience, the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-683) (1972 Code, § 5-619) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer.
(1972 Code, § 5-620) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 POLICE; TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Governing Body or the municipal police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order, or signal, of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign, or signal device, which
may have been placed at any such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,222, 60-683, and 60-436) (1972 Code, § 5-621) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, or destroy, a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the municipal police, or to disregard the summons
contained on the tag, and fail to appear in court as directed by the tag.
(1972 Code, § 5-622) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 RECKLESS DRIVING; WILLFUL.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
willful disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be deemed to be
guilty of willful, reckless driving.
(Neb. RS 60-6,214 through 60-6,218) (1972 Code, § 5-623) (Ord. 509, passed 8-6-
1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving.
(Neb. RS 60-6,213, 60-6,215, and 60-4,182) (1972 Code, § 5-624) (Ord. 509,
passed 8-6-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Neb. RS 60-6,212) (1972 Code, § 5-625) (Ord. 509, passed 8-6-1974; Ord. 635,
passed 2-5-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle in a negligent
manner by failing to give the attention to the nature or probable consequences
of his or her acts or omissions as a prudent person would ordinarily bestow
upon his or her own concerns.
(1972 Code, § 5-626) (Ord. 509, passed 8-6-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 PASSING LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No driver shall overtake and pass another vehicle, or drive to the
left of center of the roadway whenever:
      (1)   The view is not clearly visible for a distance sufficient to
accomplish the overtaking, and is not free from oncoming traffic for a distance
sufficient to permit the overtaking vehicle to return to an authorized lane of
traffic before coming within 200 feet of an approaching vehicle and to permit
the overtaking vehicle to be clear of the overtaken vehicle;
      (2)   He or she approaches within 100 feet of or traverses any
intersection or railroad grade crossing; and/or
      (3)   The section of roadway is designated as a no-passing zone.
   (B)   The limitations imposed by divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) above shall not
apply when an obstruction exists which requires a driver to drive to the left
of the center of the highway nor to the driver of a vehicle turning left into
or from an alley, private road, or driveway unless otherwise prohibited by
signs.
(1972 Code, § 5-628) (Ord. 531, passed 9-16-1975) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 CARRYING PASSENGERS IN CARGO AREAS OF PICKUP TRUCKS OR OTHER VEHICLES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry passengers in the cargo
area of a pickup truck or other vehicle, except that this chapter shall not
apply when a pickup or other vehicle is being used for a valid purpose. A valid
purpose shall include:
      (1)   An agricultural or business purpose; and/or
      (2)   Any purpose when permission has first been obtained from the
Governing Body.
   (B)   It shall be lawful to carry passengers in the cargo area of a pickup
truck or other vehicle when it is equipped with a pickup camper or other
similar enclosure.
(1972 Code, § 5-629) (Ord. 639, passed 5-6-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children under the age of five and weighing less than 40
pounds being transported in the vehicle use a child passenger restraint system
of a type which meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as of 7-10-1990, and which
is correctly installed in the vehicle; and
         (b)   All children under the age of 16 and weighing 40 or more pounds
being transported in the vehicle use an occupant protection system.
      (2)   This division (A) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, except
taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles, and any motor vehicle designated by the
manufacturer as a 1963 year model or earlier which is not equipped with an
occupant protection system.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267(1))
   (B)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (A) above shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for the waiver.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267(2))
   (C)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (A) above when operating the authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
(Neb. RS 60-6,267(3))
   (D)   Enforcement of division (A)(1)(b) above shall be accomplished only as
a secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or
charged with a violation or some other offense.
(Neb. RS 60-6,268(3))
(1972 Code, § 5-630) (Ord. 941, passed 4-3-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person, firm, association, or corporation violating any
of the provisions in this title shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
(1972 Code, § 5-801)
   (B)   Citation; waiver. Any person violating any provision of this title may
be issued a citation by a city police officer in the same manner that citations
are issued under state statutes. Any person receiving a citation issued
pursuant to this chapter may waive his or her right to trial and pay the
appropriate fine, in the manner prescribed by the Nebraska Supreme Court in its
uniform rules for the handling of citations and waivers.
(1972 Code, § 5-802) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 934, passed 1-2-2001)
CHAPTER 71: OPERATOR AND VEHICLE QUALIFICATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Registration; operator and vehicle license
   
71.02   Registration; trailer
   
71.03   License plates
   
71.04   Vehicles; equipment and maintenance
   
71.05   Vehicles; unobstructed view
   
71.06   Vehicle; muffler
   
71.07   Escape of smoke, gas, and/or odor
   
71.08   Loads; projecting
   
71.09   Loads; spilling
   
71.10   Vehicles; unattended
   
71.11   Sound apparatus
   
71.12   Newly laid pavement
§ 71.01 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any street or public highway
without having first registered the same, or without first having obtained a
motor vehicle operator’s license as provided by the laws of the State of
Nebraska, and the vehicle shall have the registration number plates, furnished
by the state or county, displayed upon the vehicle in the manner and place
provided by the laws of the State of Nebraska. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street or alley during the period
that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or cancelled. Nothing
herein shall be construed to prohibit operating of vehicles under any special
permit issued under the laws of the state.
(Neb. RS 60-6,106.01) (1972 Code, § 5-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 REGISTRATION; TRAILER.
   When any trailer shall be attached to any motor vehicle in use upon the
municipal streets, the trailer shall carry a duplicate registration number and
rear lights as required of any other motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-302) (1972 Code, § 5-302) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 LICENSE PLATES.
   The license plates, required on every motor vehicle by laws of the State of
Nebraska, or by laws of any other state while the vehicle is operated within
the corporate limits, shall be kept clear and free from grease, dust, or other
blurring matter so they will be plainly visible at all times, and shall be
attached in such manner as to be clearly readable at a distance of 100 feet and
under no circumstances shall they be obstructed by any portion of the vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-324 and 60-325) (1972 Code, § 5-303) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys, or public highways
of the municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control
the movement of, to stop, and to hold the vehicle, including two separate means
of applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and
sufficient horn in good working order, or other efficient signal devices, and
shall have from one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise,
two or more whitish lights on the front thereof, and one on each side, which
lights and all other lighting devices, including tail lights, shall be in
compliance with the laws of the State of Nebraska. No person shall operate any
vehicle which is equipped with an electric light or lights that confuse
travelers, or pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within the corporate limits.
Every motor vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more shall display clearance
lights as required by the laws of the State of Nebraska. All vehicle brakes
shall be maintained in good working order; provided, motorcycles need only be
equipped with one brake. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable of
emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less than
200 feet; provided no vehicle except herein provided, shall be equipped with,
nor shall any person use upon a vehicle, any siren or horn otherwise than as a
reasonable warning; nor shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a
vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud, or harsh sound; and provided further
that every police, Fire Department, and fire patrol vehicle, ambulance, or
other authorized emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be equipped
with a bell, siren, or whistle of the type approved by the Governing Body.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-6,244, and 60-6,254) (1972
Code, § 5-304) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 VEHICLES; UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle with any
object placed or hung in or upon the vehicle, except required or permitted
equipment of the vehicle, in such a manner as to obstruct or interfere with the
view of the operator through the windshield or to prevent the operator from
having a clear and full view of the road and condition of traffic behind the
vehicle. Any sticker or identification authorized or required by the federal
government or any agency thereof of the State of Nebraska or any political
subdivision thereof may be placed upon the windshield without violating the
provisions of this section. Every windshield on a motor vehicle shall be
equipped with a device for removing rain, snow, or other moisture from the
windshield.
(1972 Code, § 5-305) (Ord. 938, passed 2-6-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise. It shall
be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any motor vehicle upon any streets;
provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,286) (1972 Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 ESCAPE OF SMOKE, GAS, AND/OR ODOR.
   No person shall operate upon any street or alley or highway, any motor
vehicle in such manner as to permit escape therefrom any unnecessary smoke,
gas, steam, or offensive odor, or in such manner as to discharge any embers,
oils, or residue from the fuel used in the operation thereof. Proof of the
escape from the motor vehicle of any steam, smoke, gas, or offensive odors
shall be prima facie evidence that the same is necessary.
(1972 Code, § 5-307) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 LOADS; PROJECTING.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of the
vehicle, a red flag shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset, at the
extreme rear end of the load.
(Neb. RS 60-6,243) (1972 Code, § 5-308) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 LOADS; SPILLING.
   All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand, gravel, rock,
asphalt, tar, or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to prevent
the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(1972 Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 VEHICLES; UNATTENDED.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
the vehicle to the curb side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle, when
traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the gears of
the vehicle in neutral.
(1972 Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.11 SOUND APPARATUS.
   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any sound-producing or
sound-amplifying apparatus except apparatus for amplifying the human voice
within the limits of any street or public place, or in or upon any vehicle
while parked or stopped therein. No motor vehicle shall have any poster, sign,
picture, or advertising material on the windshield or glass of the side or rear
window thereof; and no person shall, by himself or herself or through his or
her agent, place, or post any poster, sign, picture, or advertising material on
the windshield of glass of either his or her own motor vehicle or that of any
other person.
(1972 Code, § 5-311) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 NEWLY LAID PAVEMENT.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over or across any pavement newly laid or
repaired, across or around which there has been placed a barrier, or at or near
which there is an officer, person or sign warning persons against riding or
driving over the pavement.
(1972 Code, § 5-312) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Traffic-control signals; meaning; turns on red signal; when
   
72.02   Jay walking
   
72.03   Truck routes
   
72.04   Arterial streets
   
72.05   Traffic lanes; designation
   
72.06   Turning; “U” turns
   
72.07   Turning; hand signals
   
72.08   Turning; generally
   
72.09   Turning; cautious
   
72.10   Right-of-way; generally
   
72.11   Right-of-way; overtaking vehicles
   
72.12   Right-of-way; emergency vehicles
   
72.13   Official emergency vehicles; exempt
   
72.14   Position of vehicle on highway; generally
   
72.15   Position of vehicle on highway; street center line
   
72.16   Backing
   
72.17   Driving in sidewalk space
   
72.18   Crosswalks
   
72.19   Signs; signals
   
72.20   Stop signs
   
72.21   Garage keeper; report damaged vehicles
   
72.22   Garage keeper; report abandoned vehicles
   
72.23   Horn requirements; prohibited acts
   
72.24   Turning; parking in opposite direction
   
72.25   Vehicle entering roadway from private road or driveway; yield right-of-
way
   
72.26   Driving upon sidewalks; prohibited; exception
   
72.27   Semitractors; prohibited noises
§ 72.01 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS; MEANING; TURNS ON RED SIGNAL; WHEN.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals
exhibiting different colored lights or colored lighted arrows, successively one
at a time or in combination, only the colors green, red, and yellow shall be
used, except for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend or symbol
and the lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians
as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green indication may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at the place
prohibits either the turn, but vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time the indication is exhibited;
         (b)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow indication, shown alone
or in combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow or such other
movement as is permitted by other indications shown at the same time, and the
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within
an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection; and
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing any green indication, except when the sole green indication
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow indication is
thereby warned that the related green movement is being terminated or that a
red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic
shall not enter the intersection, and upon display of a steady yellow
indication, vehicular traffic shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk
at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in safety, a vehicle may be
driven cautiously through the intersection; and
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow indication, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian-control signal, are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway before a red indication is shown and no
pedestrian shall then start to cross the roadway.
      (3)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red indication alone shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such line,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if there
is no crosswalk, before entering the intersection. The traffic shall remain
standing until an indication to proceed is shown except as provided in
divisions (B)(3)(b) and (B)(3)(c) below;
         (b)   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn, vehicular traffic facing a steady red indication may cautiously enter the
intersection to make a right turn after stopping as required by division (B)(3)
(a) above. The vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection;
         (c)   Except where a traffic-control device is in place prohibiting a
turn, vehicular traffic facing a steady red indication at the intersection of 2
one-way streets may cautiously enter the intersection to make a left turn after
stopping as required by division (B)(3)(a) above. The vehicular traffic shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and
to other traffic lawfully using the intersection; and
         (d)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady red indication alone shall not enter the roadway.
      (4)   If a traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a place
other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable
except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating
where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking,
the stop shall be made at the signal.
(1972 Code, § 5-201) (Ord. 932, passed 1-2-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 JAY WALKING.
   No person shall cross any street at a place other than a crosswalk, nor
cross any street intersection diagonally.
(1972 Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for person
operating the trucks to travel on other streets than those designated for
trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in that
event, the operator of the truck shall return to the truck routes as soon as
possible in traveling through, or about the municipality. The Governing Body
shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the streets
so designated as truck routes.
(1972 Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 ARTERIAL STREETS.
   The Governing Body shall have the power to designate arterial streets, also
known as through ways. Unless otherwise directed by an automobile traffic
signal or a traffic officer, all vehicles must stop before entering any street
designated as an arterial street.
(1972 Code, § 5-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at the places as they may deem advisable.
(1972 Code, § 5-206)
§ 72.06 TURNING; “U” TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation or where a stop sign has been placed.
(1972 Code, § 5-207) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 TURNING; HAND SIGNALS.
   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously
during not less than the last 50 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand and arm,
or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of Roads. The hand
and arm signals herein required shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle in the following manner: STOP or decreased speed, hand and arm extended
downward; LEFT TURN, hand and arm extended horizontally; RIGHT TURN, hand and
arm extended upward.
(1972 Code, § 5-208) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach the
intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach the center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning the vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(1972 Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 TURNING; CAUTIOUS.
   The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning, or changing the
course of the vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make the movement
in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by the movement, the operator
shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever the
operation of any other vehicle may be affected by the movement, he or she shall
give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other vehicles of his or her
intention to make the movement.
(1972 Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 RIGHT-OF-WAY; GENERALLY.
   When two vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right when the paths of the vehicles intersect and there
is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal police
officer stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall
yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the street within any clearly
marked crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block
where the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street
shall yield the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter
are operated upon official business and the drivers thereof sound audible
signal by bell, siren, or whistle.
(1972 Code, § 5-211) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 RIGHT-OF-WAY; OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
approaching from the rear shall give the right-of-way in favor of the
overtaking vehicle.
(1972 Code, § 5-212) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one block of the route of the emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, the
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of the emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right-hand curb as possible and remain there until the
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, the vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof sound audible signal
by bell, siren, or whistle.
(1972 Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 OFFICIAL EMERGENCY VEHICLES; EXEMPT.
   The provisions of this title regulating the movement, parking, and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this section, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. This exemption shall
not, however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of a
reckless disregard of the safety of others.
(1972 Code, § 5-214)
§ 72.14 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one-half of
the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(1972 Code, § 5-215) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; STREET CENTER LINE.
   A vehicle shall not be driven to the center line of the highway in
overtaking or passing another vehicle in the same direction, unless the left
side is clearly visible and free from oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance to permit the overtaking and passing to be made in safety.
(Neb. RS 39-747) (1972 Code, § 5-216) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16 BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given and while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind. The driver of a parked
vehicle about to back shall give moving vehicles the right-of-way.
(Neb. RS 60-6,169 and 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-217) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.17 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No vehicle shall be driven within any sidewalk space, except a permanent or
temporary driveway. Before crossing a sidewalk in the process of entering a
street in the congested area of the municipality, all vehicles shall come to a
complete stop; then proceed slowly while crossing the sidewalk.
(1972 Code, § 5-218) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.18 CROSSWALKS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at any other places as they may deem necessary.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-219)
§ 72.19 SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the municipality’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
or prohibiting traffic thereon. The resolution shall describe the portion of
the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where the sign, signal, standard, or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when the regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with the regulation or prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,119 through 60-6,121) (1972 Code, § 5-220) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 72.20 STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection, or if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on the
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if the driver moved across or into
the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if the driver moved across or into the intersection.
(1972 Code, § 5-221) (Ord. 933, passed 1-2-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.21 GARAGE KEEPER; REPORT DAMAGED VEHICLES.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop in this municipality to
which is brought any vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by a
bullet, or having been recently involved in an accident, shall report to the
Chief of Police, as soon as such vehicle is received, giving the engine number,
manufacturer’s serial number, registration plate number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(1972 Code, § 5-222)
§ 72.22 GARAGE KEEPER; REPORT ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop at which has been left a
motor vehicle of unknown ownership for a period of 15 consecutive days without
being removed by its owner or any other person duly authorized to remove the
same, shall report to the Chief of Police, giving the name, engine number,
manufacturer’s serial number, registration plate number, and the name and
address of the person abandoning same, if known.
(1972 Code, § 5-223)
§ 72.23 HORN REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with a
horn in good working order capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet. Except as otherwise
provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be equipped
with or for any person to use upon a vehicle any siren, exhaust, compression,
or spark plug whistle or for any person at any time to use a horn, otherwise
than as a reasonable warning, or to make any unnecessary or unreasonably loud
or harsh sound by means of a horn or other warning device. Every police and
Fire Department and fire patrol vehicle and every ambulance used for emergency
calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren, or exhaust whistle.
(1972 Code, § 5-224) (Ord. 935, passed 1-16-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.24 TURNING; PARKING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTION.
   (A)   No vehicle traveling on a city street in one direction shall turn at
any place other than at an intersection so as to park in a diagonal or parallel
parking space on the opposite side of the street.
   (B)   This provision shall apply only to the following areas: 10th Street
from Colfax Street to C Street; 11th Street from Colfax Street to D Street;
12th Street from Colfax Street to D Street; A Street from 10th Street to
Railside Green Drive; B Street from 10th Street to the U.P. Railroad tracks; C
Street from 10th Street to 12th Street; and D Street from its intersection with
the alley south of the Courthouse to 12th Street.
(1972 Code, § 5-225) (Ord. 850, passed 7-18-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.25 VEHICLE ENTERING ROADWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY; YIELD RIGHT-OF-
WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, private
road, or building shall stop the vehicle immediately before driving onto a
sidewalk and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian approaching on any
sidewalk. Before entering the highway, the driver shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles approaching on the highway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle entering an alley, building, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian approaching on any
sidewalk.
(1972 Code, § 5-226) (Ord. 936, passed 1-16-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.26 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a sidewalk except upon a permanent or
duly authorized temporary driveway.
(1972 Code, § 5-227) (Ord. 937, passed 1-16-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.27 SEMITRACTORS; PROHIBITED NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of the city to make or cause
to be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical devices operated by
compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking on any semitractor,
commonly referred to as jakebraking. The Council shall cause notices to be
posted, or erect signs indicating the prohibition.
(1972 Code, § 5-228) (Ord. 993, passed 7-20-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Generally
   
73.02   Congested district described
   
73.03   Congested area
   
73.04   Areas
   
73.05   Obstructing alley
   
73.06   Alleys
   
73.07   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
73.08   Truck parking
   
73.09   Fire hydrants and station
   
73.10   Schools; theatres
   
73.11   Street intersections
   
73.12   Obstructing traffic
   
73.13   Curb
   
73.14   Curbs, painted
   
73.15   Display or repair
   
73.16   Motor vehicles; current license
   
73.17   Time limit
   
73.18   Maximum time limit
   
73.19   Emergency vehicles
   
73.20   Throughways
   
73.21   Street sweeping
   
73.22   Duty of police officers; fines and disposition
§ 73.01 GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb, in such manner as to have
both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb and so as to leave at least four
feet between the vehicle so parked and any other parked vehicle. No person
shall park a vehicle so as to obstruct a private driveway, or drive, for any
period of time. No person shall park a vehicle, or permit it to stand, within
15 feet in either direction from the entrance of any fire station.
(1972 Code, § 5-401) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 CONGESTED DISTRICT DESCRIBED.
   When reference is made to the congested district of the municipality, it
shall refer to Tenth (10th), Eleventh (11th), and Twelfth (12th) Streets from
the west line of Colfax Street to the east line of D Street; A, B, C, and D
Streets from Tenth (10th) Street to the Union Pacific Railroad Company right-
of-way.
(1972 Code, § 5-402)
§ 73.03 CONGESTED AREA.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, within the “congested district” where vehicles shall be parked
parallel with and adjacent to the curb so as to have both right wheels within
six inches of the curb; or where vehicles shall be parked at an angle on any
street, or portion thereof, shall be parked with the right front wheel of the
vehicle at the curb. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement
in the congested district, vehicles shall be parked within the stalls.
(1972 Code, § 5-403)
§ 73.04 AREAS.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof for the parking of any particular kind or class of
vehicle, and where the parking of vehicles has been prohibited by resolution,
no vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked adjacent to
the curb of the street, alley, public way, or portion thereof, longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
(1972 Code, § 5-404)
§ 73.05 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(1972 Code, § 5-405) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading
or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload which shall not exceed
the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or unloading in
any alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction
possible to traffic in the alley; provided this section shall not apply to
merchants’ delivery trucks parked in alleys immediately at the rear of their
respective places of business if the trucks shall be parked so as not to
obstruct the passing of moving cars.
(1972 Code, § 5-406) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles of an over-all length of less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging freight may back to the curb, but shall occupy as little of the
street as possible.
(1972 Code, § 5-407) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRAILER. Any vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and being pulled by motor vehicle so constructed that part of its
weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle that is designed, used, or maintained, primarily
for the transportation of property. A TRUCK also includes buses.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Any motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of a vehicle and load being drawn.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, truck-tractor, or
trailer with an overall length of more than 20 feet to stop, park, or unload on
a street which the Governing Body has designated to be a “congested district,”
unless loading, or unloading, in an alley is impossible. In that case, the
vehicle may stop, stand, or unload, for a maximum time of 30 minutes.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, truck-tractor, or
trailer, regardless of length, to park any such vehicle within a street
intersection, on a sidewalk, or so as to block public access to a crosswalk or
a private driveway.
   (D)   Except for loading or unloading, or in the case of an emergency, no
truck, truck-tractor, or trailer, carrying hazardous or flammable material may
stop for any period of time in any of the following zones: RR Rural
Residential, R-1 Single Family Residential, R-2 Urban Family Residential, R-
3 Multi Family Residential, MH Mobile Home Residential, LC Limited Commercial
and Office, and CBD Central Business District.
   (E)   No truck, truck-tractor, or trailer, in excess of 20 feet may be
parked in the R-1 Single Family Residential, R-2 Urban Family Residential, R-
3 Multi Family Residential, MH Mobile Home Residential, or LC Limited
Commercial, except in compliance to the terms and conditions set forth in this
section.
      (1)   The vehicle may be parked in the forementioned zones only if the
vehicle is parked wholly on the property of the owner or driver, or parked in
the street. If parked in the street, the vehicle may not encroach within 30
feet of the intersection. In addition, if parked on the street, truck, truck-
tractor, and trailer may not be parked immediately adjacent to the property
belonging to any other person other than the owner or the driver.
      (2)   The vehicle may not block any alley, driveway, or sidewalk.
      (3)   Once parked, the operator or owner of the vehicle may not leave a
motor or engine connected with the vehicle operating except for the limited
purpose of warming up the engine prior to removing the vehicle from the parked
location. In no case may the motor or engine be operated for more than 30
minutes, and this operation must be done immediately prior to removing the
vehicle from the aforementioned zone. The operation of motors for the heating
or cooling of trailers is specifically prohibited except for a vehicle
temporarily parked for loading or unloading purposes, or for emergency
purposes.
      (4)   In no case may a trailer not attached to a truck or truck-tractor
be parked on a city street in any of the aforementioned zones.
      (5)   The parking of such a vehicle on a city street shall in no way
interfere with the use of city streets by emergency vehicles. The parking of
any vehicle on a city street which any way restricts the use of a city street
by emergency vehicles is prohibited.
      (6)   The permission to park vehicles as described herein is intended
only as a convenience for the owner or driver of that vehicle. The owner or
driver must be actively engaged in a trade or business for which the use of
such a vehicle is vital. No truck, truck-tractor, or trailer, not currently
actively engaged in a trade or business may be parked in one of the zones set
forth in this section. The truck, truck-tractor, or trailer, must be properly
licensed. Any truck, truck-tractor, or trailer, which is neither properly
licensed nor actively engaged in a trade or business, shall be deemed a
nuisance and shall be removed from the zone described above. ACTIVELY ENGAGED
IN A TRADE OR BUSINESS means being used regularly on a weekly basis.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the operator or driver of any truck, truck-
tractor, or trailer with a normal length of more than 20 feet to stop or park
the vehicle on any property belonging to the City of Schuyler, including, but
not limited to, city parks, city-owned parking lots, and property belonging to
the City of Schuyler’s Department of Utilities. This prohibition specifically
includes the city streets immediately under the Highway 15 viaduct traversing
the Union Pacific Railroad tracks. Unless otherwise stated herein, this
prohibition does not cover the parking and city streets as long as the parking
is done in conformity to applicable ordinances and regulations. The vehicle may
be parked on city property for necessary loading and unloading, and for
emergency purposes. This provision does not apply to vehicles owned by the City
of Schuyler.
(1972 Code, § 5-408) (Ord. 919, passed 3-7-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATION.
   No vehicle shall be parked or any horse left hitched within 15 feet in
either direction of any fire hydrant or fire station. The curb space within the
area of 15 feet in either direction of the fire hydrant or fire station shall
be painted red to indicate the prohibition.
(1972 Code, § 5-409) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 SCHOOLS; THEATRES.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping of
vehicles at the curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school
house, school building, or theatre, and the curbs adjacent to the entrance of
the school house, school building, or theatre shall be painted red to indicate
the prohibition.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-410)
§ 73.11 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing for any purpose near the
intersection of curb lines where the curb lines are painted red to indicate the
prohibition In no case shall any vehicle be parked within 25 feet of the
intersection of the curb lines, whether painted red or not. In the absence of
curbs parking shall be prohibited within 15 feet of the intersection of
property lines which establish the street right-of-way.
(1972 Code, § 5-411) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.12 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon any street or highway in such a manner as to obstruct the free
flow of traffic.
(1972 Code, § 5-412) (Ord. 510, passed 8-6-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.13 CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless
the street has been designated to be a “one-way” street by the Governing Body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (1972 Code, § 5-413) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.14 CURBS, PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause the curb space to be
painted and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter. No person, firm,
or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set aside,
or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of portions of streets
or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done
only by the municipality through its proper officers, at the direction of the
Governing Body.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-414)
§ 73.15 DISPLAY OR REPAIR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley, or
public place within this municipality any vehicle displayed for sale. No person
shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same,
while standing on the public streets or alleys of this municipality, excepting
in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee
connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles
or vehicles of any description.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-415) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.16 MOTOR VEHICLES; CURRENT LICENSE.
   No person shall operate, drive, or park, or cause to be operated, driven, or
parked a motor vehicle on any public highway, road, street, or public right-of-
way unless the vehicle shall have affixed thereto one license plate on the back
of the motor vehicle, and one license plate on the front of the motor vehicle,
which license plates are properly issued and currently in full force and
effect.
(1972 Code, § 5-416) (Ord. 954, passed 11-20-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.17 TIME LIMIT.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by the resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in the resolution shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-417)
§ 73.18 MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 24 consecutive
hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (1972 Code, § 5-418) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.19 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this chapter, while the driver of the vehicle is operating the same
in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114) (1972 Code, § 5-419)
§ 73.20 THROUGHWAYS.
   Whenever the Governing Body shall designate a street or highway within the
municipality as a throughway, the Governing Body may also, at its discretion,
prohibit parking along the entire length of any such designation. If the
prohibition is deemed necessary by the Governing Body, signs indicating the
prohibition shall be placed at regular intervals along the route. In no case
shall parking be permitted along the route of Highway 30 within the
municipality.
(1972 Code, § 5-420) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.21 STREET SWEEPING.
   For purposes of cleaning the streets of the municipality, parking is
absolutely prohibited every day during the hours of 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on
the following named streets: Colfax Street, A. Street, B. Street, and C Street
running south from the Union Pacific Railroad right-of-way to the south line of
Tenth (10th) Street Twelfth (12th) Street running east from the west line of
Colfax Street to the east line of C Street; and Eleventh (11th) Street running
east from the west line of Colfax Street to the east line of D Street.
(1972 Code, § 5-421) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.22 DUTY OF POLICE OFFICERS; FINES AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the City of Schuyler,
Nebraska, to report:
      (1)   The owner, when known, of each licensed vehicle that has been
parked in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and the location
of each limited parking space wherein a vehicle is parked, or has been parked,
in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The state license number of the vehicle if the vehicle is required
by law to be licensed;
      (3)   The date and time the vehicle was found to be parked in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter; and
      (4)   Any further facts or knowledge which may be necessary for a
thorough understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
   (B)   Each police officer shall also attach to the vehicle at the time the
vehicle is found in violation, a notice to the owner or operator thereof that
the vehicle is or has been parked in violation of a provision of this chapter.
The notice shall describe the violation and instruct the owner or operator that
he or she may appear before the appropriate city official, admit the
allegation, waive the court appearance, and pay the appropriate fine. Fines
shall be imposed by waiver and paid as follows:
 
1-5 days    $15
Over 5 days $50
 
   (C)   For every subsequent parking offense in the City of Schuyler by the
same offender in the same calendar year, add $15 per offense to each of the
categories 1-5 days and over five days as set forth above. DAYS are defined as
business days.
   (D)   The first $5 of the foregoing fine so collected shall be retained by
the city for administration fees. All the remaining portion of the fine so paid
shall be paid to the City Treasurer and deposited in the City Road Fund. In the
event any such owner or operator shall desire to contest a citation issued, or
shall fail to appear in response to the notice set forth above, the owner or
operator shall be liable to prosecution in the appropriate court and the
imposition of a fine as set forth in §
70.99.
(1972 Code, § 5-422) (Ord. 741, passed 6-18-1985; Ord. 2007-01, passed 3-6-
2007)
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
74.01   Bicycle; license
   
74.02   Bicycle; operation
   
74.03   Clinging to motor vehicle
   
74.04   Motorcycle; lights
   
74.05   Motorcycle; riding tandem
   
74.06   People Power Vehicles; operation; traffic rules and regulations
§ 74.01 BICYCLE; LICENSE.
   Anyone wishing to operate a bicycle within the corporate limits shall obtain
a license from the municipal police. The license shall expire on December 31 of
each year and all registrants shall be granted a 30-day grace period from that
date in which to renew the license. The license shall be issued by the
municipal police upon the payment of a $.25 fee to the Chief of Police. The
license, containing the words “SCHUYLER BICYCLE REGISTRATION” and a specific
number, shall then be attached to the frame of the bicycle in a substantial
manner. A record shall be kept by the Police Department of every such
registration. Licenses shall not be transferable from one person to another,
nor from one bicycle to another. The removal of the tag, except by the proper
authorities, shall be unlawful.
(1972 Code, § 5-501) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 BICYCLE; OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle,
firmly attached to the bicycle, and properly lighted, or without a yellow, or
red light reflector attached to, and visible 500 feet from the rear thereof.
The headlight shall give a clear, white light.
   (E)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
   (F)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at
the right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on the sidewalk. The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for
and designate the location of a sufficient number of bicycle racks in the
interest of public safety.
   (H)   No bicycle shall be ridden on any sidewalk within the fire limits of
the municipality except for purposes of approaching a bicycle rack.
(Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317, and 60-6,318) (1972 Code, § 5-502) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling
upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or herself or
his or her bicycle, or roller skates, to the vehicle so driven and operated by
him or her.
(Neb. RS 60-6,316) (1972 Code, § 5-503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 MOTORCYCLE; LIGHTS.
   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys, or highways from
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, unless the same
shall be equipped with at least one, and not more than two headlights, plainly
visible from the front and with a light on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 500
feet to the rear thereof; provided, the lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of the statutes of the State of Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219) (1972 Code, § 5-504) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 MOTORCYCLE; RIDING TANDEM.
   No person operating a motorcycle shall carry another person in front of the
operator.
(Neb. RS 60-6,307) (1972 Code, § 5-505) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEOPLE POWER VEHICLES; OPERATION; TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No more than two persons shall ride or propel a People Power Vehicle
(PPV).
   (B)   No People Power Vehicle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and
proper, but every such vehicle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the
safety of the operator or operators and any other persons upon the streets and
public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding or operating People Power Vehicles shall observe all
traffic signs and stop at all stop signs.
   (D)   No People Power Vehicle shall be permitted on any street or other
public highway from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before
sunrise.
   (E)   No person or persons shall operate or propel a People Power Vehicle
upon any street or other public highway abreast of another People Power
Vehicle.
   (F)   Every person or persons riding or propelling a People Power Vehicle
upon any street or other public highway shall observe all traffic rules and
regulations applicable thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal
for all turns, ride at the right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to
the left when overtaking vehicles, and individuals that are slower moving and
shall pass vehicles to the right when meeting.
   (G)   No person shall park a People Power Vehicle on any sidewalk and no
People Power Vehicle shall be ridden on any sidewalk within the fire limits of
the municipality.
   (H)   All People Power Vehicles shall be equipped with a flag of material
visible for a distance of 100 yards and attached to a pole not less than six
feet in height.
(1972 Code, § 5-506) (Ord. 503, passed 5-7-1974) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
75.01   Operation, rules and regulations of snowmobiles
§ 75.01 OPERATION, RULES AND REGULATIONS OF SNOWMOBILES.
   Operation of snowmobiles shall be permitted within the city jurisdiction on
highways or roadways within the boundaries of the city, so long as same is in
accordance with the special rules for snowmobiles in accordance with Nebraska
Statutes. Neb. RS 60-6,320 through 60-6,346, shall constitute the rules and
regulations for the operation of snowmobiles within the jurisdiction of the
city, or as such special rules for snowmobiles adopted by statute for the State
of Nebraska, may be amended. Except that snowmobiles may not be operated on
public lands or waters or other property owned or under the regulation and
jurisdiction of the city, permitting such operation only on highways or
roadways within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the city.
(1972 Code, § 5-701) (Ord. 522, passed 2-18-1975; Ord. 2010-02, passed 3-16-10)
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
Section
   
76.01   All-terrain and utility-type vehicles
§ 76.01 ALL-TERRAIN AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
         (b)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
         (c)   Travels on no less than four non-highway tires; and
         (d)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger.
(Neb. RS 60-103, 60-305 and 60-6,355)
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.  
         (a)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
            1.   Is 74 inches in width or less;
            2.   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
            3.   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; and
            4.   Travels on four or more non-highway tires.
         (b)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include all-terrain vehicles, golf
car vehicles, or low-speed vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-135.01, 60-358.01 and 60-6,355)
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle and a utility-type vehicle may be operated on
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle and a utility-type vehicle may be operated only
between the hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in
excess of 30 miles per hour. When operating an all-terrain vehicle and utility-
type vehicle as authorized in division (B) above, the headlight and taillight
of the vehicle shall be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle
safety flag which extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the
rear of such vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with
an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (D)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
as authorized in division (B) above shall have:
      (1)   A valid Class O operator's license; and
      (2)   Liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle on a street or highway. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or
a utility-type vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request.
   (E)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated without
complying with divisions (C) and (D) above on streets and highways in parades
which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska or any department, board,
commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (F)   Except as provided in division (H) below, an all-terrain vehicle and a
utility-type vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-access highway
with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any controlled-
access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be permitted.
Divisions (B), (D) and (G) of this section authorize and apply to operation of
an all-terrain vehicle and a utility-type vehicle only on a street or highway
other than a controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes.
   (G)   Subject to division (F) above, the crossing of a street or highway
shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle and a utility-type vehicle without
complying with divisions (C) and (D) above only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Neb. RS 60-6,356)
   (H)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall not be permitted
to be operated on State Highway #15 a/k/a Colfax Street and 16th Street, a/k/
a Old State Highway #30, a/k/a County Road E, within the city limits, except to
cross said highway as provided in division (G) above. Further, permits such as
a farm permit shall not be sufficient to allow a person to operate an all-
terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle as a valid Class O operator's license
shall be required.
   (I)   Prior to any all-terrain vehicle or any utility-type vehicle being
operated within the corporate city limits, all owners of an all-terrain vehicle
and all owners of a utility-type vehicle shall be required to license such
vehicle with the City Clerk, with a numbering tag system to identify the
vehicle being licensed. The initial license fee of such owner shall be $50 and
thereafter annually and no later than June 1 of each calendar year such vehicle
shall be renewed for such license and the fee for such renewal shall be $25.
Proof of liability insurance meeting the Nebraska State statute requirements
for automobiles shall be required to be shown to the City Clerk prior to
receiving the license tag for such vehicle, annually. If the owner of such UTV/
ATV does not renew the annual license with the City Clerk on or before June 1
of such calendar year, such license fee shall be $50.
   (J)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle within the corporate limits of the city without first complying with
division (I) above requiring licensing of such all-terrain vehicle or utility-
type vehicle and upon violation such person shall be punished as provided under
§
70.99.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 3-19-2013; Ord. 2015-09, passed 5-5-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
90.03   (Reserved)
   
90.04   (Reserved)
   
90.05   Exceptions to license; transient dogs
   
90.06   Rabies vaccination required; license
   
90.07   Proof of vaccination
   
90.08   Animals; running at large prohibited
   
90.09   Offensive dogs or cats
   
90.10   Vicious or dangerous animals
   
90.11   Wild or exotic animals; permit; revocation; impoundment
   
90.12   Destruction of property by animals
   
90.13   Cruelty to animals
   
90.14   Poisoning of animals
   
90.15   Owner’s duties
   
90.16   Pitting
   
90.17   Accident involving domestic animals or pets; duties
   
90.18   Animal Control Officer’s duties
   
90.19   Enforcement
   
90.20   Banned from municipality
   
90.21   Fowls; banned from municipality
   
90.22   Maximum numbers allowed
   
90.23   Performing animal exhibitions
   
90.24   Kennels
   
90.25   Pet excrement; removal by owner
   
90.26   Multiple violations; nuisance; penalties
   
90.27   Abandonment, neglect and mistreatment
Dangerous Dogs
   
90.40   Generally
   
90.41   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; confinement and control;
definitions
   
90.42   Judicially or administratively excluded dogs
   
90.43   Potentially dangerous dog; declaration
   
90.44   Dangerous dog; declaration
   
90.45   Impounding of dogs during enforcement proceedings
   
90.46   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; spaying or neutering;
microchip identification and license required
   
90.47   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; restrained
   
90.48   Dangerous dogs; confined
   
90.49   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; proof of insurance
   
90.50   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; impoundment
   
90.51   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; at large; destruction
   
90.52   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs; failure to comply
   
90.53   Reckless owner
   
90.54   Pit bulls and other vicious dogs; leash and muzzle required
   
90.55   Dangerous dogs; additional regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature other than human beings.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The duly employed or appointed and acting Animal
Control Officer or Pound Master of the animal shelter as provided for in this
chapter, his or her duly authorized agents or assistants, or a law enforcement
officer of the city.
   BIRD(S). Any feathered vertebrate, including, but not limited to, pigeons,
but excluding poultry or fowl.
   CAT. Any male or female cat which is a member of the family Felis domestica.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any commercial business engaged in the
business of breeding, buying, selling, or grooming of animals.
   DOG. Any male or female dog which is a member of the family Canis
familiaris.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any of various animals domesticated by people so as to live
and breed in a tame condition and shall include, but not be limited to,
ferrets.
   ENCLOSURE. Any fence, cage, wall, or other structure used to confine an
animal.
   FOWL. Any poultry, including, but not limited to, chickens, geese, ducks,
turkeys, quail, pheasant, but not including pigeons.
   INOCULATION FOR RABIES. The inoculation of a dog or cat with a vaccine
generally approved by licensed veterinarians for use in the prevention of
rabies.
   KENNEL. The house, buildings, store, yard, enclosure, pen, or place where
four or more dogs over the age of six months are harbored or kept, or the
house, building, store, yard, enclosure pen, or place where four or more weaned
female cats are harbored or kept. However, the above definition shall not apply
to spayed female cats or to a city animal shelter or animal hospital or
boarding place operated by a licensed veterinarian.
   LEASH. A thong, cord, rope, or commercially sold restraint no longer than 16
feet in length; except as otherwise provided for more specific provisions
relating to leash as provided for pit bulls, vicious dogs, dangerous dogs or
potentially dangerous dogs for which separate leash requirements shall control.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal kept or raised for use or pleasure, including, but not
limited to, cows, sheep, goats, donkeys, mules, or horses.
   OWN. Unless otherwise indicated in the text, shall mean to possess, whether
by purchase, gift, or finding; keep; harbor; or have charge, custody, or
control of an animal.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog, cat or animal, to be present in or about his or her home, business or
enclosure or to remain to be fed or lodged in or about such house, business or
enclosure or yard thereto, shall be deemed the owner and possessor of such dog,
cat or animal and shall be deemed to be liable for all such penalties herein
prescribed. However, such OWNER shall not apply to dogs or cats or animals
owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises of a
veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
(Neb. RS 54-606, 54-617, 71-4401)
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   RESIDENCE. The structure used as a domicile by a person or a family.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of any animal by a leash or lead, or the physical
control of any animal by a responsible person and obedient to that person's
commands, or the maintaining of any animal within the real property of its
owner.
   SHELTER. Any structure with a roof and walls designed and/or intended to
house one or more animals.
   VETERINARY MEDICAL CARE FACILITY. A facility which has the primary function
of providing medical care for animals and is operated by a currently licensed
veterinarian.
   WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL. Those animals ferae naturae which are wild by nature
and, which, because of habit, mode of life, or natural instinct, are incapable
of being completely domesticated, and require the exercise of art, force, or
skill to keep them in subjection. Examples of wild or exotic animals include,
but are not limited to, bees, doves, hawks, owls, mink, monkeys, rats, snakes,
deer, any cat not a member of the family Felis domestica, including, but not
limited to, tigers, panthers, and lynxes, and any dog not a member of the
family Canis familiaris, including, but not limited to, wolves, wolf-hybrids,
foxes, and coyotes.
(1972 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013)
§ 90.02 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the municipality
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the
dog annually by or before the May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by
the City Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by the
governing body, plus the $1 fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It shall be
unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed
female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the governing body has established
different license taxes for such dogs. The City Council may authorize an agent
on behalf of the city to issue the license and receive the tax payment for the
benefit of the city, including compensation for such agent, pursuant to
authorized resolution duly passed by the City Council relating to this
provision.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon the payment of the license tax, the Clerk (or the Clerk's
authorized and designated agent) shall issue to the owner of the dog a license
certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be valid until April 30 following
such licensing. The Clerk or the Clerk's authorized and designated agent) shall
issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk (or the Clerk's authorized and designated
agent).
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk (or the Clerk's authorized and designated agent) shall issue a duplicate
or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has been paid
and shall charge and collect a fee established by the governing body for each
duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the general fund of the municipality, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS
54-603.
(1972 Code, § 6-102) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012;
Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 (RESERVED).
§ 90.04 (RESERVED).
§ 90.05 EXCEPTIONS TO LICENSE; TRANSIENT DOGS.
   The provisions of this chapter with respect to licensing shall not apply to
a dog owned by any person temporarily residing and keeping within the city the
dog for less than ten days, or any dog brought into the city for bench or show
purposes; provided, the dog remains near its owner or keeper or his or her
means of confinement. It shall be unlawful to bring any dog into the city
except in compliance with the laws and statutes of the state regarding the
care, handling, and treatment of dogs.
(1972 Code, § 6-105) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013)
§ 90.06 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED; LICENSE.
   Any person owning or possessing a dog, cat, or other animal, including, but
not limited to, ferrets, within the corporate limits must have the animal
vaccinated with a federally licensed, three-year rabies vaccine by a duly
licensed veterinarian. The vaccination must be boosted in one year if the
animal is less than 12 months old, and then every three years thereafter.
Before the owner of any dog or cat can obtain a license for same, he or she
must produce to the licensing authority certified proof to the effect that the
animal has been vaccinated in compliance with the conditions of this chapter.
(1972 Code, § 6-106) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 PROOF OF VACCINATION.
   The owner of any animal must be ready, willing, and able at all times when
called upon to do so by a police officer or Animal Control Officer to furnish
proof that the animal has been vaccinated with a rabies vaccine in accordance
with §
90.06 if it applies to the animal. The proof which must be furnished shall be a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, identifying the animal in detail and
stating the date on which it was vaccinated with anti-rabies vaccine.
(1972 Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013)
§ 90.08 ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Dog or cat.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow their dog
or cat to run at large, whether licensed or not, or to go in and upon the
private premises of others within the city or upon the streets or property of
the city except when accompanied by and under the control of the owner or a
member of his or her immediate family and on a leash as defined by §
90.01. It is further declared unlawful for any owner of any female dog or cat;
whether licensed or not, to allow the female animal, while in heat, to run at
large or be kept outside of a closed building, tightly fenced yard, or suitable
means of confinement. Any dog or cat found to be running at large shall be
impounded by the Animal Control Officer as provided in this chapter. The
officer shall not release the animal until the shelter fees provided for
hereinafter are paid. However, more strict provisions shall also apply to
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog violations as provided in §§
90.40 through
90.55.
      (2)   All dogs shall be kept under restraint. This means either under a
leash when off the owner's property as provided for in division (A)(1) above,
or shall be within a tightly fenced yard, or shall be chained or leashed within
a yard, or in another suitable means of confinement when on the owner's
premises. Subject to the more strict provisions under the dangerous dog
sections, §§
90.40 through
90.55, the only exception to the restraint requirement shall be if the dog is
outside on the owner's premises, and is being supervised by a responsible
member of the owner's family who is also outside at the same time.
   (B)   Livestock, fowl, and exotic animals. The running at large or herding
of any horses, cattle, or other such animals commonly known as livestock, or
the picketing or tying out of any such animals upon or in any public street or
other public or private grounds in the city not owned by or under the lawful
control of the owner or person in charge of the livestock, or the running at
large of any chicken pigeon, or other fowl or animal, whether domestic, wild,
or exotic, within the city is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is hereby
prohibited.
(Neb. RS 16-206) (1972 Code, § 6-108) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16,
passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 OFFENSIVE DOGS OR CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own a dog which, by continued or
frequent barking or howling, annoys any neighborhood or person, or which
habitually barks at or chases any person or vehicle to the annoyance of the
person or operator of the vehicles; provided, however, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to any animal shelter owned or operated by the city and
any dogs kept therein. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or
harbor any cat which shall annoy or disturb any person or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 16-206) (1972 Code, § 6-109) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16,
passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or to allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by him or her or under his or her charge or control, any
animal of a vicious, dangerous, or ferocious disposition, or any animal which
habitually manifests a disposition to bite or endanger the public or other
animals without the animal being securely confined within the premises of the
owner and at a safe distance from persons lawfully upon the sidewalks and
streets. If, upon the trial of any offense mentioned in this section, it shall
appear to the court that the animal is still living, the court may, in addition
to the usual judgment of conviction, order the Animal Control Officer to
forthwith put the animal to death. It shall be unlawful for any person to
tease, annoy, or irritate any such animal confined as hereinbefore described.
(1972 Code, § 6-110) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS; PERMIT; REVOCATION; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the
city to own, or to allow to be in or upon any premises occupied by him or her
or under his or her charge or control, or otherwise keep, hold, maintain, or
bring into the city any wild or exotic animal, without first obtaining a permit
issued by the City Council. This section shall not apply to any municipal,
state, or federal zoo, park, refuge, or wildlife area, or to any bona fide
circus or traveling animal exhibit.
   (B)   To obtain a permit, a person must file with the City Clerk an
application for a permit. The application may be granted and permit given only
after:
      (1)   The person desiring the permit pays any application fee which may
be set by the City Council;
      (2)   A public hearing on the application is scheduled during the next
convenient meeting of the City Council;
      (3)   Notice of public hearing on the application is published at least
one week prior to the meeting of the City Council during which the application
will be heard; and/or
      (4)   It appears to a majority of the City Council following a public
hearing that:
         (a)   Granting the permit would not create a nuisance or cause for
public safety or concern; and
         (b)   The applicant is a fit and proper person or entity to maintain,
keep, and hold the wild or exotic animal(s) which he or she seeks to own, or to
allow to be in or upon any premises occupied by him or her or under his or her
charge or control, or to bring into the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   During the public hearing:
      (1)   The applicant must, at minimum, explain the purpose for seeking the
application, declare the number of animals to be kept under the permit, and
demonstrate how the wild or exotic animal(s) will be maintained, kept, held,
and controlled; and
      (2)   Members of the public shall be allowed to object and show cause why
the application should not be granted.
   (D)   Permits may be granted for any duration not exceeding two years.
Renewal permits shall not be granted without first following the application
procedure set forth in divisions (B) and (C) above. Automatic renewal of
permits shall not be allowed.
   (E)   Permits may not be transferred under any circumstances.
   (F)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of the permit that the city or
any of its agents shall be permitted to inspect the premises and all animals
thereon which are kept under the permit, without notice between 7:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any day. Refusal to allow an inspection by an authorized agent of
the city shall be a ground for revocation of the permit.
   (G)   Upon inspection, if it is found that the holder of the permit or his
or her or its employees have failed to adequately hold or control the animal(s)
held under the permit, or to properly care for the animals as set forth in this
chapter, the Animal Control Officer, his or her assistant, or the agent of the
city who has performed the inspection shall report his or her findings to the
Department of Health and Sanitation and to the City Council.
   (H)   The City Council may, after proper notice and hearing, revoke or
suspend the permit for one or more of the following causes:
      (1)   Refusal by the permit holder to allow the city to inspect the
premises or examine the animals thereon which are kept under the permit;
      (2)   The conviction of the permit holder or any of his or her or its
employees for the offense of cruelty to animals as set forth in §
90.13, whether or not the conviction is based upon the treatment of animals
maintained, held, or kept under the permit;
      (3)   The conviction of the permit holder or any of his or her or its
employees for violation of the offenses of running at large as set forth in §
90.08 or owner's duties as set forth in §
90.15 as to any of the animals maintained, held, kept under the permit; and/or
      (4)   A reasonable showing that the health and safety of the public are
endangered by the maintaining, holding, or keeping of any of the animals under
the permit.
   (I)   Following revocation of the permit, if the owner fails to remove the
animal(s) maintained, held, or kept under the permit from the corporate limits
of the city within 48 hours of the revocation, the Animal Control Officer, his
or her assistants, or police officers shall be authorized to impound and hold
the animal(s) until the time as the owner is able to remove the animal(s) from
the corporate limits of the city, which shall under no circumstances be longer
than 72 hours. The owner shall be responsible for payment of any shelter fees
as set by the City Council which are incurred as a result of the impoundment.
If the owner fails to claim or redeem the impounded animal(s) within 72 hours,
the city shall have the right to destroy or sell the animals, with the proceeds
from the sale used to maintain the city shelter.
   (J)   Any person legally holding in captivity any animal subject to the
prohibitions contained in this section on March 1, 2000, shall be allowed to
keep the animal for the duration of its life. The animal shall not be traded,
sold, or otherwise disposed of without written permission from the Nebraska
Game and Parks Commission or the official body by whom the original permit for
the animal was granted.
(1972 Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY BY ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, or to allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by him or her or under his or her charge or control, any
animal that in any manner damages or destroys any real or personal property of
any description belonging to another. If upon the trial of any offense
mentioned in this chapter, it shall appear to the court that the person is
guilty as charged in the complaint, the court may, in addition to the usual
judgment of conviction, order the person so offending to make restitution to
the party injured in an amount equal to the value of the property so damaged or
destroyed.
(1972 Code, § 6-112) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture, beat, starve, ill-treat,
abandon, or kill any animal in his or her care or charge, whether the animal
belongs to him or her or to any other person or whether the animal belongs to
no one or is a stray. This section shall not apply to the killing of animals by
veterinarians and animal shelter technicians who use proper euthanasia
techniques, nor shall it apply to Animal Control Officers acting within the
scope of their authority.
(1972 Code, § 6-113) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 POISONING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to administer, or cause to be
administered, poison of any sort whatsoever to any dog or cat, except for the
lawful performance of euthanasia administered by a duly licensed veterinarian.
It shall also be unlawful to place any poison or poisoned food where the same
is accessible to any dog or cat.
(1972 Code, § 6-114) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 OWNER'S DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to provide food and water
for his or her animals, or fail to seek care for any such animal at a
veterinary medical care facility if the animal is sick or injured.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to leave his or her pets without
shelter in subfreezing weather or stormy weather for four or more consecutive
hours.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to provide his or her
animal with shelter of sufficient size to allow each animal to lie down, and of
sufficient construction to shield the animal from the wind and from
precipitation.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to fail to confine his or her
animals within an enclosure of sufficient size and design to prevent the animal
from escaping, or to restrain the animal by a rope, chain, or stake in such a
manner as to prevent the animal from going onto any public property or onto the
property of another.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to abandon an animal.
(1972 Code, § 6-115) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 PITTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
   COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
   DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
   PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Neb. RS 28-1004)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
         (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
         (c)   Own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for such purpose; or
         (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (B)(1) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (B)(1) of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1005)
   (C)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in
subdivision (C)(2)(b) of this subsection, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means
equipment, products, and materials of any kind that are used, intended for use,
or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning, or furtherance
of the pitting of an animal against another as defined in division (A) of this
section. ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            1.   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog's grip on
another animal or object;
            2.   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a central
support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to secure a
cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            3.   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of an
endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            4.   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to contain
an animal fight;
            5.   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            6.   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            7.   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            8.   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
         (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment,
products, or materials of any land used by a veterinarian licensed to practice
veterinary medicine and surgery in this state.
      (3)   Any person violating division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor. (Neb. RS 28-1005.04)
(1972 Code, § 6-116) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012;
Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.17 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DOMESTIC ANIMALS OR PETS; DUTIES.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal or pet, shall stop at once and render any assistance as may be possible
and shall immediately report the injury or death to the police or the Animal
Control Officer for the city.
(1972 Code, § 6-117) (Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013)
§ 90.18 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER'S DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer or his or her assistants:
   (A)   To carry out and enforce all the provisions of this chapter and any
amendments thereto, or any ordinance later enacted and relating to animals
which are duties of the Animal Control Officer or his or her assistants;
   (B)   To maintain an animal shelter at some convenient and suitable
location, which shelter shall be kept sanitary, properly heated, ventilated and
lighted;
   (C)   To properly house, feed, water, and care for all animals confined in
the animal shelter;
   (D)   To enforce the licensing of all dogs in the city as hereinabove
provided;
   (E)   To file a complaint against any person violating any provision of this
chapter; and
   (F)   To capture and secure all animals found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, and to remove the animals in a humane manner to the
animal shelter.
(1972 Code, § 6-118) (Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013)
§ 90.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall be under the
direction of the Animal Control Officer, his or her assistants, city police
officers, and the Board of Health. For the purpose of enforcing this chapter or
abating any nuisance existing hereunder, the Animal Control Officer or any of
his or her assistants may enter and go upon premises, public or private.
(1972 Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013)
§ 90.20 BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or harbor, within the
corporate limits of the city, any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, or any
livestock.
(1972 Code, § 6-120) (Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 FOWLS; BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or harbor, within the
corporate limits of the city, any poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese, or other
fowl.
(1972 Code, § 6-121) (Ord. 869, passed 9-5-1996; Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000;
Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 MAXIMUM NUMBERS ALLOWED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor at any time
more than three adult dogs or three adult cats per residential or dwelling unit
in the city. The total number of adult dogs, adult cats and animals per
residential or dwelling unit in the city shall not exceed four adult animals
including a maximum of three of any one certain animal. For the purpose of this
section, the definition of animals in §
90.01 shall apply and shall include but not be limited to dogs, cats, rabbits
or ferrets. For the purpose of this section, an adult dog or cat is a dog or
cat that is more than six months old. Provisions of this section shall not
apply to catteries, kennels and pet stores, which have been licensed by the
city, or veterinarians.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to persons keeping, maintaining or
harboring adult dogs, adult cats or animals as of January 1,2013, so long as
the number of adult dogs, adult cats or animals is not increased, or area in
which they are kept is not expanded. In those cases, the provisions applicable
to non-conforming uses and the city zoning regulations shall be applicable to
the keeping, maintaining, or harboring of such adult dogs, adult cats or
animals.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013) Penalty see §
90.99
§ 90.23 PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS.
   No performing animal exhibition or circus shall be permitted in which
animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical,
mechanical, electrical, or manual devices in a manner which will cause, or is
likely to cause, physical injury or suffering. All equipment used on a
performing animal shall fit properly and be in good working condition.
(1972 Code, § 6-122) (Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 KENNELS.
   Title XV sets forth provisions dealing with the permissible location of
kennels in the zoning area of the city. Kennels are permitted by right in AG
Agricultural District and the LI Limited Industrial Area. Kennels are permitted
by special use permits only in the RR Rural Residential District, R-l Single
Family Residential Zone, R-2 Urban Family Residential Zone, and GC General
Commercial Zone. Provisions of Title XV shall be complied with prior to any
person maintaining a kennel.
(1972 Code, § 6-123) (Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013)
§ 90.25 PET EXCREMENT; REMOVAL BY OWNER.
   The owner of any animal which deposits excreta on public or private property
shall be responsible for its removal. It shall be a violation of this section
for the owner to fail to remove the excreta when notified of its existence and
location, either by the city or by the owner of the property on which the
excreta was deposited.
(1972 Code, § 6-124) (Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 MULTIPLE VIOLATIONS; NUISANCE; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any owner of any animal regulated by this chapter who fails repeatedly
to care for or control the animal and has been issued warnings or citations for
violating one or more provisions of this chapter on three or more occasions
within any 24-month period, shall be deemed to be maintaining a nuisance, the
abatement of which shall be the forfeiture of the animal or animals in
violation. More strict provisions shall also apply to dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog violations of a reckless owner as provided in the dangerous dog
provisions in §§
90.40 through
90.55.
   (B)   The owner of any animal found in violation of this chapter shall be
responsible for all costs incurred by the city in connection with the
apprehension, housing, care, or destruction of that animal.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalties, liquidation fees and impound fees contained in §
90.99, as amended.
(1972 Code, § 6-125) (Ord. 931, passed 12-5-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-
2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal,
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the municipality or
any other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the
municipality or any other city or village to enforce state or local animal
control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may seek a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care
for, or impound the animal.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an
animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated
may issue a citation to the owner as prescribed in Neb.
RS 29-422 to 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer's
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)   Violation. A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly
abandons, cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an
offense. Penalty, see §
90.99.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.40 GENERALLY.
   Sections
90.40 through
90.55 are to be read together. They establish a procedure to deal with
dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs.
(1972 Code, § 6-201) (Ord. 875A, passed 2-18-1997; Ord. 921, passed 4-18-2000;
Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.41 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL;
DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, harbor or allow to be in or upon any
premises occupied by him or under his charge or control any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog without said dog being confined so as to protect the
public from injury. Any city law enforcement officer, animal control officer or
other authority designated by the Mayor and City Council is authorized to kill
such dog if found running at large. The prudent use of firearms by any such
officer for this purpose or for any purpose required, by this section shall not
be considered a violation of this code or other ordinances of the city.
   (B)   DANGEROUS DOG shall be defined as one who meets one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Has killed a human being;
      (2)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
      (3)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
      (4)   Has been previously declared or determined to be a potentially
dangerous dog by an Animal Control Authority or city administrative
declaration, the owner has received notice from an Animal Control Authority or
an Animal Control Officer or the city of such declaration or determination, and
the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (C)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG shall be defined as one who meets one or
more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts an injury on a human that does not require medical
treatment, or injures a domestic animal(s) either on public or private
property; or
         (b)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animal(s).
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (D)   No dog may be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if it
inflicts injury or damage on a person committing a willful trespass or other
tort upon premises occupied by the owner or lessee of the dog or committing or
attempting to commit a crime. No dog may be declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous for taking action to defend or protect a human being within the
immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault. No dog
used in lawful activities of any law enforcement officer shall be declared a
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
   (E)   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock.
      ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young
children, and which is suitable to confine a dangerous dog in conjunction with
other measures which may be taken by the owner or keeper of the dog. The
enclosure shall be designed in order to prevent the animal from escaping. The
animal shall be housed in a humane manner.
      IMPOUNDED. A dog or animal taken into the custody of the animal control
services or authorized law enforcement officer of the city to the public pound
or provider of animal control services for the city.
      INJURY. Any physical injury resulting in medical treatment administered
by a physician or other licensed healthcare professional that results in
sutures or surgery or treatment for one or more broken bones.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A person authorized to
enforce the animal control laws of the city including any active police officer
or animal control officer and the duties of said law enforcement officer shall
include the control of animal(s), or seizure and impoundment of animal(s) and
shall include any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties
in whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and
impoundment of any animal(s).
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. As defined in §
90.01.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring
lacerations requiring medical treatment or one or more broken bones or that
creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.42 JUDICIALLY OR ADMINISTRATIVELY EXCLUDED DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring, any dog into the city which
has, in another jurisdiction, been judicially or administratively declared or
determined to be dangerous, potentially dangerous, vicious, a nuisance, or a
threat to the health or safety of human beings.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.43 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG; DECLARATION.
   (A)   The city shall initiate administrative proceedings to determine a dog
to be a potentially dangerous dog if it meets the definition of POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS DOG under §
90.41. The city shall provide written notice of such declaration to the dog's
owner either by certified or regular mail to the owner's last known address or
to the owner personally. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner whose dog is subject to such
declaration;
      (2)   The name, description and license number of the dog that is subject
to such declaration;
      (3)   A description of the facts which form the basis of such
declaration;
      (4)   A copy of this Chapter 90 and state that noncompliance will result
in an owner being declared a reckless owner by the city as well as the
penalties in §
90.99;
      (5)   The date of proposed entry of the declaration, which shall be not
less than ten days after the date of mailing or personal service of the notice;
and
      (6)   Notification of the availability of an appeal if the owner objects
to such declaration, within ten days of the date of mailing or personal service
of the notice.
   (B)   An owner whose dog is determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
shall be required to comply with §
90.47 immediately; and §§
90.46 and
90.49 within 30 days of the date of entry of the declaration; unless a notice
of appeal is filed with the city; provided, noncompliance with any of the
sections set forth above in this division shall result in the owner being
declared a reckless owner by the city under §
90.53, as well as being subject to the penalties as provided in §
90.99.
   (C)   An appeal of such a declaration shall be heard at a hearing by the
City Council Safety Committee within ten days of the date of the filing of a
written notice of appeal and shall provide an opportunity for the owner to
appear and offer evidence to dispute the declaration. The filing fee for each
notice of appeal shall be $200 paid to the city at the time of filing the
appeal. A decision to affirm or reverse such decision shall be entered within
ten days of the date of the hearing.
   (D)   An owner may request termination of the declaration if there are no
incidents of the type specified in §
90.41(C) for at least 48 months following the date of the declaration. Such
request for termination shall be made in rating and shall be heard by the City
Council Safety Committee within 30 days of the date of the filing of the
written request for termination. Said hearing shall provide an opportunity for
the owner to appear and offer evidence to support termination of the
declaration. The owner must provide written documented evidence that the dog's
behavior has changed due to environment, health, age, training, neutering or
other relevant factors. The filing fee for each request for termination shall
be $200 and shall be paid to the city at the time of the filing of the written
request for termination. A decision to continue or terminate such declaration
shall be entered within ten days of the date of the hearing.
   (E)   An owner whose dog has been declared potentially dangerous dog can
elect to euthanize the dog or permanently remove the dog from the city's
jurisdiction as opposed to complying with §§
90.46,
90.47 and
90.49. If the owner elects to remove the dog from the city's jurisdiction, the
owner will be required to sign a separate written agreement prepared by the
city confirming that the dog will never be within the city's corporate
jurisdiction. Should the owner fail to comply with said agreement at any time
in the future, the city would enforce §
90.52 with regard to failure to comply and all penalty provisions as applicable
in §
90.99.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.44 DANGEROUS DOG; DECLARATION.
   (A)   The city shall initiate administrative proceedings to determine a dog
to be a dangerous dog if it meets the definition of DANGEROUS DOG under §
90.41. The city shall provide written notice of such declaration to the dog's
owner either by certified or regular mail to the owner's last known address or
to the owner personally. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner whose dog is subject to such
declaration;
      (2)   The name, description and license number of the dog that is subject
to such declaration;
      (3)   A description of the facts which form the basis of such
declaration;
      (4)   A copy of this Chapter 90 and state that noncompliance will result
in an owner being declared a reckless owner by the city as well as the
penalties in §
90.99;
      (5)   The date of proposed entry of the declaration, which shall be not
less than ten days after the date of mailing or personal sendee of the notice;
and
      (6)   Notification of the availability of an appeal if the owner objects
to such declaration, within ten days of the date of mailing or personal service
of the notice.
   (B)   An owner whose dog is determined to be a dangerous dog shall be
required to comply with §
90.47 immediately; and §§
90.46 and
90.49 within 30 days of the date of entry of the declaration; unless a notice
of appeal is filed with the city; provided, noncompliance with any of the
sections set forth above in this division shall result in the owner being
declared a reckless owner by the city under §
90.53, as well as being subject to the penalties as provided in §
90.99.
   (C)   An appeal of such a declaration shall be heard at a hearing by the
City Council Safety Committee within ten days of the date of the filing of a
written notice of appeal and shall provide an opportunity for the owner to
appear and offer evidence to dispute the declaration. Trie filing fee for each
notice of appeal shall be $200 paid to the City at the time of filing the
appeal. A decision, to affirm or reverse such decision shall be entered within
ten days of the date of the hearing.
   (D)   An owner may request termination of the declaration if there are no
incidents of the type specified in §
90.41(B) for at least 48 months following the date of the declaration. Such
request for termination shall be made in writing and shall be heard by the City
Council Safety Committee within 30 days of the date of the filing of the
written request for termination. Said hearing shall provide an opportunity for
the owner to appear and offer evidence to support termination of the
declaration. The owner must provide written documented evidence that the dog's
behavior has changed due to environment, health, age, training, neutering or
other relevant factors. The filing fee for each request for termination shall
be $200 and shall be paid to the city at the time of the filing of the written
request for termination. A decision to continue or terminate such declaration
shall be entered within ten days of the date of the hearing.
   (E)   An owner whose dog has been declared dangerous dog can elect to
euthanize the dog or permanently remove the dog from the city's jurisdiction as
opposed to complying with §§
90.46,
90.47 and
90.49. If the owner elects to remove the dog from the city's jurisdiction, the
owner will be required to sign a separate written agreement prepared by the
city confirming that the dog will never be within the city's corporate
jurisdiction. Should the owner fail to comply with said agreement at any time
in the future, the city would enforce §
90.52 with regard to failure to comply and all penalty provisions as applicable
in §
90.99.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.45 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS DURING ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If there is reasonable cause shown that the offending dog under §
90.41 may constitute a hazard to the safety of the public at large during the
pendency of any action commenced thereunder, the court may order, upon receipt
of an affidavit by appropriate law enforcement officer or Animal Control
Officer of the city, such dog impounded pending the outcome of such
proceedings. Any person who owns, keeps, harbors, maintains, or controls any
dog involved in such impoundment shall pay all expenses to the city, including
shelter, food, veterinary expenses, boarding, or other expenses necessitated by
the impoundment of the dog for the protection of the public and other expenses
as may be required. The city may require such person, prior to expiration of
ten days after the date of impoundment, to pay an amount sufficient to pay all
reasonable expenses incurred in caring and providing for the dog, including
estimated medical care, for 30 days, inclusive of the date on which the dog was
impounded. If such payment is not made prior to expiration of such ten-day
period, the dog shall become the property of the city to be disposed of as the
city deems appropriate. Such payment shall be required for each succeeding 30-
day period. If any such payment is not made prior to the end of each succeeding
30-day period, the dog shall become the property of the city to be disposed of
as the city deems appropriate.
   (B)   The amount of the payment shall be determined by the city based on the
current rate for board at the Animal Shelter and the condition of the dog after
its examination by a veterinarian acting for the city. Any such payment
received by the city in excess of the amount determined by the city to be due
for the board and care of the dog shall be refunded by the city upon expiration
of the order of impoundment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the owner or
custodian is found not guilty in any legal proceeding brought under this
section, the owner or custodian shall only be required to pay the veterinary
expenses and one-half of the board and care fees determined by the city to be
due, unless waived.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the city that such dog is diseased or disabled beyond any useful
purpose, the dog shall immediately become the property of the city to be
humanely disposed of as the city deems appropriate.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.46 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; SPAYING OR NEUTERING;
MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any dog declared to be dangerous or potentially dangerous shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with microchip identification by a licensed veterinarian
at the owner's expense no less than 30 days after such declaration is entered,
with written proof of spaying or neutering and the microchip identification
number being provided to the city within 72 hours of completion of the
procedure. In addition, such dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall be
required to be licensed as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 30
days of the declaration, and such dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
license shall be of a separate charge to be determined by City Council by
resolution.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.47 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; RESTRAINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, or having the care of
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to permit such dog to go beyond the
property of such person unless the dog is under the control of a person 19
years of age or older and restrained securely by a harness and leash no longer
than six feet and properly muzzled as to reasonably prevent the dog from
biting.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.48 DANGEROUS DOGS; CONFINED.
   No person owning, harboring, or having the care of a dangerous dog shall
permit such dog to go unconfined while unattended on the premises of such
person. A dangerous dog shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors
or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to
prevent the entry of young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The
pen or structure, if allowed by zoning regulations, shall have secure sides and
a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides shall be embedded into the ground no less than one foot or have a
concrete pad with sides secured to the concrete pad. The pen or structure shall
also protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post
a city approved warning sign on the property where the dog is kept so that the
sign is clearly visible at all times and. inform the public that a dangerous
dog is on the property.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.49 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog by a court
deterrnination or any dog administratively declared to be a potentially
dangerous dog cannot be licensed (and therefore cannot be located within the
city) unless the person having custody, ownership or control of such dog first
presents written proof of public liability insurance of not less than $100,000
to the city. Such insurance shall be maintained in effect for the period such
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog is so designated.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.50 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog that bites a human being without provocation shall be immediately
impounded by any city law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer. The
owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred for the care of
such impounded dangerous dog and the dog may be destroyed upon determination by
the court. The city may require the owner of such dog. prior to expiration of
ten days after the date of impoundment, to pay an amount sufficient to pay all
reasonable expenses incurred in caring and providing for such impounded dog,
including estimate medical care, for 30 days, inclusive of the date on which
the dog was impounded. If such payment is not made prior to expiration of such
10-day period, the dog shall become the property of the city to be disposed of
as the city deems appropriate. Such payment shall be required for each
succeeding 30-day period. If any such payment is not made prior to the end of
each succeeding 30-day, the dog shall become the property of the city to be
disposed of as deems appropriate.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.51 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; AT LARGE; DESTRUCTION.
   Any dog declared to be a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog as
defined in §
90.41 and is found at large and unattended upon public property, park property,
or a public right-of-way, or upon the property of someone other than its owner,
thereby creating a hazard to person or property, may, in the discretion of the
chief of police or his authorized designee, or any city law enforcement officer
or Animal Control Officer, be destroyed if it cannot be confined or captured.
The city shall be under no duty to confine or capture a dangerous dog or
potentially dangerous dog found at large nor shall it have a duty to notify the
owner of such dog prior to its destruction.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.52 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog may be immediately
confiscated by any city law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer if
the owner is in violation of this subchapter. The owner shall be responsible
for the reasonable costs incurred by the city for the care of such confiscated
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog, or for the destruction of any
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog. In addition to any other penalty, a
court may order the city to dispose of a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.53 RECKLESS OWNER.
   (A)   The city may initiate administrative proceedings to declare an owner
to be a reckless owner, and to revoke all pet license(s) issued to such person
if such owner has paid a fine to the city by waiver, or has been issued a
citation for a violation of this subchapter, §§
90.41 through
90.55, and has failed to pay the fine in the time required by such citation, or
who has been convicted of or who has been convicted of one or more violations
of this subchapter, §§
90.41 through
90.55, on two separate occasions in a 24-month period or whose animal(s) has
been determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous and who has not
complied with the requirements of this chapter pertaining to dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal(s), a reckless owner, and to revoke all pet
license(s) associated with said animal(s) issued to such person. Such
proceedings shall be instituted by service of a notice in writing upon such
owner either by regular mail to the owner's last known address or to the owner
personally. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner who is subject to such
declaration and revocation decision;
      (2)   The name(s), description(s) and license number(s) of any animal(s)
associated with such violations licensed to the owner;
      (3)   A description of the violations or requirements which form the
basis of such declaration and revocation decision, including the case numbers,
if any;
      (4)   A summary of the effects of such declaration, including the
revocation of said pet license(s) and surrender of said animal(s);
      (5)   The date of proposed entry of the declaration and revocation
decision which shall be not less than ten days after the date of mailing or
personal service of the notice; and
      (6)   Notification of the availability of an appeal, if the owner objects
to such declaration and revocation decision, within ten days of the date of
mailing or personal service of the notice.
   (B)   Upon entry of such declaration and revocation decision, unless an
appeal of such is filed with the city in accordance with this section, such
reckless owner shall be required to surrender said animal(s) to any city law
enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer within 24 hours. Failure to
surrender such animal(s) shall result in immediate impoundment by the city.
Such surrendered or impounded animal(s) shall immediately become, the property
of the city and may be disposed of by the city as they deem appropriate.
   (C)   An owner who is declared a reckless owner shall be prohibited from
licensing, residing with, or owning any additional animal(s) in the city for a
period of 48 months from the date of entry of the declaration and revocation
decision.
   (D)   An appeal of such declaration and revocation decision shall be heard
by the City Council Safety Committee which shall provide an opportunity for the
owner to appear and offer evidence to dispute the declaration and revocation
decision. The filing fee for each appeal shall be $200 payable to the city at
the time of the filing of said appeal. A determination to affirm or reverse
such decision shall be determined by the City Council Safety Committee within
ten days of the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.54 PIT BULLS AND OTHER VICIOUS DOGS; LEASH AND MUZZLE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any persons owning, harboring or having the
care of a pit bull or other vicious dog as defined herein, to permit such dog
to be outdoors unless confined in a securely fenced yard or unless the dog is
under the control of a person 19 years of age or older, restrained securely by
a harness and leash no longer than six feet and properly muzzled to reasonably
prevent the dog from biting.
    (B)   For purposes of this section, PIT BULL AND OTHER VICIOUS DOGS shall
be defined as any dog that is an American Pit Bull Terrier, American
Staffordshire Terrier, Staffordshire Bull Terrier, Dogo Argentina, Presa
Canario, Cane Corso, American Bulldog, Chows, Dobermans, Rottweiler, American
Bandagge, or any dog displaying the majority of such physical traits of any one
or more of the above breeds (more so than any other breed), or any dog
exhibiting those distinguishing characteristics which substantially conform to
the standards established by the American Kennel Club or United Kennel Club for
any of the above breeds. The A.K.C and U.K.C standards for the above breeds are
on file at the city office.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to pit bulls or other vicious dogs as
defined herein, which are used and qualified as service dogs for such time
period as the dog is actually being used for such service dog purposes.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.55 DANGEROUS DOGS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to restrict or prohibit the
City Council from establishing and enforcing other laws or ordinances that are
at least as stringent as the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided with more specific penalty provisions as set forth
below, any person who shall violate or fail to comply with the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein, or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 plus liquidation fees and
impound fees for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(1972 Code, § 6-701)
   (B)   Any person, upon violation of the provisions of §
90.02, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of §
90.02, shall be in violation of §
90.02 and, shall be required to pay a fine to the city without further
prosecution in court as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   First violation - $50 fine;
      (2)   Second violation - $100 fine;
      (3)   Third or subsequent violation - forfeiture of animal as per §
90.26; and
      (4)   Violations are computed during a two-year period.
(1972 Code, § 6-102)
      (5)   Alternatively the city may file such violation in the form of a
complaint in the County Court of Colfax County, Nebraska, requesting the fines
as set forth above or as determined by the Court, together with liquidation
fees and impound fees for each offense and forfeiture of the animal as per §
90.26.
   (C)   Any person, upon violation of the provisions of §
90.06, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of §
90.06, shall be in violation of §
90.06 and, shall be required to pay a fine to the city without further
prosecution in court as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   First violation - $50 fine;
      (2)   Second violation - $100 fine;
      (3)   Third or subsequent violation - forfeiture of animal as per §
90.26; and;
      (4)   Violations are computed during a two-year period.
(1972 Code, § 6-106)
      (5)   Alternatively the city may file such violation in the form of a
complaint in the County Court of Colfax County, Nebraska, requesting the fines
as set forth above or as determined by the Court, together with liquidation
fees and impound fees for each offense and forfeiture of the animal as per §
90.26.
   (D)   Any person, upon violation of the provisions of §
90.08, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of §
90.08, shall be in violation of §
90.08 and, shall be required to pay a fine to the city without further
prosecution in court as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   First violation - $50 fine;
      (2)   Second violation - $ 100 fine;
      (3)   Third or subsequent violation - forfeiture of animal as per §
90.26; and
      (4)   Violations are computed during a two-year period.
      (5)   Alternatively the city may file such violation in the form of a
complaint in the County Court of Colfax County, Nebraska, requesting the fines
as set forth above or as determined by the Court, together with liquidation
fees and impound fees for each offense and forfeiture of the animal as per §
90.26.
   (E)   Any person, upon violation of the provisions of §
90.09, who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of §
90.09, shall be in violation of §
90.09 and, shall be required to pay a fine to the city without further
prosecution in court as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   First violation - $50 fine;
      (2)   Second violation - $100 fine;
      (3)   Third or subsequent violation - forfeiture of animal as per §
90.26; and
      (4)   Violations are computed during a two-year period.
      (5)   Alternatively the city may file such violation in the form of a
complaint in the County Court of Colfax County, Nebraska, requesting the fines
as set forth above or as determined by the Court, together with liquidation
fees and impound fees for each offense and forfeiture of the animal as per §
90.26.
   (F)   Any person, upon violation of the provisions of §§
90.41,
90,42,
90.43,
90.44,
90.46,
90.47,
90.48,
90.49 or
90.54, who should fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of §§
90.41,
90,42,
90.43,
90.44,
90.46,
90.47,
90.48,
90.49 or
90.54, shall be in violation of §§
90.41,
90,42,
90.43,
90.44,
90.46,
90.47,
90.48,
90.49 or
90.54, as applicable, and shall be required to pay a fine to the city without
further prosecution in court as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   First violation - $100 fine;
      (2)   Second violation or subsequent violation the city may file a
complaint in the County Court of Colfax County, Nebraska and the city may
initiate administrative proceedings to declare the owner a reckless owner
pursuant to §
90.53.
   (G)   In addition to the foregoing fines, any person coming within the
penalty provisions of this section shall be obligated to pay all liquidation
fees of the animal and all impound fees relating to the animal. Said impound
fees shall be set by resolution of the City Council, and such liquidation fees
shall be the actual expenditures for the liquidation of such animal. Further
amendments to the fine provisions under divisions (B), (C), (D), (E) and (F)
above as well as the impound fees may be amended or revised by resolution of
the City Council.
(1972 Code, § 6-108) (Ord. 687, passed 7-20-1982; Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999;
Ord. 920, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 2012-16, passed 2-19-2013)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
South Park Regulations
   
91.01   Bag and possession limits; South Park waters
   
91.02   Use of minnows and live bait fish
   
91.03   Bow and arrow and spear fishing
   
91.04   Motor powered boats
 
   
91.99   Penalty
SOUTH PARK REGULATIONS
§ 91.01 BAG AND POSSESSION LIMITS; SOUTH PARK WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to have in possession at any time Amur River Carp, more
commonly known as grass carp. The bag and possession limit in South Park waters
within the boundaries of the South Park of the City of Schuyler shall be five
fish, with the exception of Bluegill which shall have no limit. All South Park
waters are open to fishing, except those areas as may be closed by the Nebraska
Game and Parks Commission by posting or by regulations by federal or state law.
Any fish that is not to be counted in the bag limit must be returned
immediately into the water with as little injury as possible. Any fish placed
on a stringer or in a container, or not returned immediately into the water
must be counted in the bag.
(1972 Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 687, passed 7-20-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 USE OF MINNOWS AND LIVE BAIT FISH.
   It shall be unlawful to use live minnows or other live bait fish in any of
the waters within the South Park system. It shall be unlawful to have in
possession live minnows or live bait fish while fishing any of those waters
comprising the South Park system.
(1972 Code, § 6-402) (Ord. 687, passed 7-20-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 BOW AND ARROW AND SPEAR FISHING.
   It shall be unlawful to use a bow and arrow or any spear fishing device for
the purpose of fishing in any of the waters comprising the South Park system.
(1972 Code, § 6-403) (Ord. 687, passed 7-20-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 MOTOR POWERED BOATS.
   It shall be unlawful to use motor powered boats in any of those waters
comprising the South Park system, provided however, that the use of electric
motors shall be allowed.
(1972 Code, § 6-404) (Ord. 687, passed 7-20-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full length herein, or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 plus liquidation fees for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of the failure to comply.
(1972 Code, § 6-701) (Ord. 687, passed 7-20-1982; Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Municipal Property
   
92.01   Obstructions
   
92.02   Permitted obstructions
   
92.03   Signs and canopies
   
92.04   Awning and sign specifications
   
92.05   Fluorescent lighting
   
92.06   Inspections and removal
Sidewalks
   
92.20   Sidewalk space; defined
   
92.21   Overhanging branches
   
92.22   Kept clean
   
92.23   Unlawful snow removal
   
92.24   Maintenance
   
92.25   Construction by owner
   
92.26   Petition
   
92.27   Defects
   
92.28   Repair
   
92.29   Municipal construction or repair
   
92.30   Specifications
Streets
   
92.40   Names and numbers
   
92.41   Crossings
   
92.42   Excavation
   
92.43   Mixing concrete
 
   
92.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 92.01 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public
ground and interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements
shall be deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. The roots may be removed
by City of Schuyler personnel at the expense of the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to
obstruct or encumber by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any
municipal street, alley, or sidewalk. For the purposes of this subchapter,
streets shall be considered the entire platted portion, and not just limited to
the paved or hard surface portion or driving area of the street.
   (C)   Specifically excepted from the prohibitions contained herein shall be
mailboxes, and doors for pedestrian traffic only which open onto sidewalks in
the C-2 Central Business zone.
   (D)   To the extent that any provision of this subchapter is in conflict
with the Uniform Building Code, the provisions of this subchapter shall
prevail.
(1972 Code, § 8-101) (Ord. 836, passed 9-21-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Streets and sidewalks; authority to prevent encroachment, see Neb. RS 16-210
§ 92.02 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if the persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Street Commissioner to do so; provided, no
permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space, and more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building
is to be constructed, erected, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be
granted; and provided further, a suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be
maintained within the public space included in the permit which shall be
protected and lighted in the manner required by the Street Commissioner.
(1972 Code, § 8-102)
§ 92.03 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, or maintain, any sign,
signboard, poster, or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley, or on
other public property without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits
for signs, canopies, posters, and signboards shall be issued by the Municipal
Clerk, subject to the approval of the Building Inspector, upon the payment of a
fee set by resolution of the Governing Body. All signs and canopies extending
over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place must be securely
fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger of the same being
dislodged by ordinary winds, or falling from other causes. No sign or canopy
shall be erected or maintained which extends over any public sidewalk, street,
alley, or other public place in such a location as to obstruct the view of any
traffic light, sign, or signal. Upon the written order of the Governing Body,
any person owning or occupying the premise where such a sign, canopy, poster,
or signboard is located, shall cause the same to be removed within the time
limit specified on the notice.
(1972 Code, § 8-103) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 AWNING AND SIGN SPECIFICATIONS.
   All awnings hereafter erected or suffered to remain in the sidewalk space
shall be of canvas on iron frames. All awnings shall be elevated at least six
and one-half feet at their lowest part from the top of the public sidewalk and
shall not project over the sidewalk to exceed three-quarters of the width
thereof. They shall be supported without posts by iron brackets or by an iron
framework attached firmly to the building, so as to leave the sidewalk wholly
unobstructed thereby; provided, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent
the owner of any building from constructing a substantial awning or marquee of
noncombustible material supported without posts over the sidewalk space if
located flush with the outer edge thereof and if a building permit shall have
first been secured for the construction of the same.
(1972 Code, § 8-104) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 FLUORESCENT LIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any fluorescent lighting,
neon sign, or other lighting or display facility having similar load
characteristics to the Electrical Distribution System of the municipality, or
to permit a connection already made to continue, unless the fluorescent
lighting, neon sign, or other lighting or display facility having similar load
characteristics, is connected with capacitators or other auxiliaries of
sufficient size to maintain a power factor of 90% or more lagging, whenever the
fluorescent lighting, sign or other display equipment is in operation. Each day
that the fluorescent lighting, neon sign or other lighting or display facility
shall remain connected to the Electrical Distribution System of this
municipality, shall be deemed and shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(1972 Code, § 8-105) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 INSPECTIONS AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   All signs and awnings shall be inspected under the direction of the
Building Inspector within 90 days after they have been erected or constructed.
Any sign or awning constructed or erected without complying with the provisions
of this subchapter shall be deemed to be a public nuisance and a danger to the
public health and safety. The Building Inspector shall make the additional and
periodic inspections as he or she shall deem necessary and if any sign or
awning falls into disrepair, he or she shall report the same to the Governing
Body and the owner shall repair or remove the nuisance within the time
prescribed by the Governing Body.
   (B)   All commercial signs where the owner or lessee has moved or is out of
business, and any such sign which has become dead or valueless for advertising
purposes are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be removed as
hereinbefore provided by order of the Governing Body upon the recommendation of
the Building Inspector.
(1972 Code, § 8-106)
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.20 SIDEWALK SPACE; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1972 Code, § 8-201)
§ 92.21 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner, or occupant, of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting, or
adjacent to any sidewalk over which there extends the branches of trees shall
at all times keep the branches, or limbs thereof, trimmed to the height of at
least seven and one-half feet above the surface of the walk. Whenever the
limbs, or branches, of any tree, or trees, extend over sidewalks contrary to
the provisions herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the street from
street lights, or with the convenience of the public using the sidewalk, the
Governing Body at any regular, or special meeting shall pass a resolution
ordering the owner, or occupant, to cut, or remove, the obstructions within
five days after having received a copy thereof from the Street Commissioner
stating that the municipality will remove the branches and charge the costs
thereof to the owner, or occupant, as a special assessment for improvements as
herein provided, if the resolution is not complied with.
(1972 Code, § 8-202) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Streets and sidewalks; authority to prevent encroachment, see Neb. RS 16-210
§ 92.22 KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot, or lots, or the owner of
any vacant lot, or lots, within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud,
ice, or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks, or to permit any snow,
sleet, ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. All sidewalks
shall be cleaned within a reasonable time after the cessation of a storm.
(1972 Code, § 8-203) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Streets; authority to prevent obstruction of, see Neb. RS 16-207
§ 92.23 UNLAWFUL SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to move, push, or dump snow from privately owned
premises upon the public streets of the municipality except as is hereinafter
specifically provided. The removal of snow from privately owned premises shall
be the sole obligation and responsibility of the owner or the tenant of such
premises.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of such privately owned premises may arrange in
advance and in writing, with the Chairperson of the Street Committee to have
the employees of the municipality transport such snow, previously removed by
such owner or tenant from such privately owned premises onto the public street,
upon such terms and for such reimbursement to the Municipality as may be
agreeable to the Governing Body. Only when such authorization and arrangements
are made in advance of such removal of snow in writing, will the owner of
tenant be absolved from liability for the violation of the terms, conditions,
and provisions of this section.
   (C)   Any owner or tenant, who shall fail to make prompt payment to the
municipality of the amount agreed to be paid, as reimbursement to the
municipality shall not thereafter be entitled to have the employees of the
municipality transport the snow, removed from the privately owned premises, as
aforesaid, nor shall such owner or tenant thereafter be permitted to move, push
or dump snow from the privately owned premises upon the public streets.
(1972 Code, § 8-204) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, or lots, or piece of land within the corporate
limits shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous
to said lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper
repair, and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers
thereon. In the event that the owner, or owners, of any lot, lots, or lands,
abutting on any street, avenue, or part thereof, shall fail to construct, or
repair, any sidewalk in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within
the time and in the manner as directed and required herein after having
received due notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages, or injury,
occasioned by reason of the defective, or dangerous, condition of any sidewalk,
and the Governing Body shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be
constructed, or repaired, and assess the costs thereof against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01) (1972 Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit and
survey.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file the
application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The engineer in charge of sidewalk surveys shall issue the desired
permit unless good cause shall appear why the permit should be denied;
provided, if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the
regularly prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the municipal official in
charge of sidewalks shall submit the application to the Governing Body who
shall determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. When a permit
is issued for the construction of a sidewalk, the municipal official in charge
of sidewalks shall make a survey and set stakes indicating the location, grade,
and elevation of the sidewalk, It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, or cause to be constructed the sidewalk at any other location,
grade, or elevation than so designated. All sidewalks shall be built and
constructed on the established grade, or elevation, and if there is no
established grade, then on the grade or elevation indicated by the municipal
official in charge of sidewalks. The survey shall be made within ten days after
the permit has been issued.
   (C)   The fees of the Municipal Engineer shall be paid by the municipality,
but if the person obtaining the permit and survey fails or neglects to
construct the sidewalk within 60 days, the applicant shall be liable to the
municipality for the expense of the survey at a rate set by resolution of the
Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 PETITION.
   Upon the petition of any freeholder, the Governing Body may order permanent
sidewalks built in accordance with this subchapter, upon the freeholder making,
executing, and delivering to the municipality an agreement to pay for the same
and that the cost, until paid, shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate
along which the freeholder desires the sidewalk to be constructed, and giving
and granting to the municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of the
same against the real estate and promising to pay the same with interest. The
total cost of such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed, and
specially assessed as provided by law.
(1972 Code, § 8-207)
§ 92.27 DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers to take note of all defects in
sidewalks, and when in disrepair, report the same to the Street Commissioner
for appropriate action according to law.
(1972 Code, § 8-208)
§ 97.28 REPAIR.
   The Street Commissioner may require sidewalks of the municipality to be
repaired. Notice to the owners of the property on which the sidewalks in
disrepair are located shall notify the owners to repair the sidewalk required
to be repaired within 24 hours from the issuance of the notice. No special
assessment shall be levied against the property unless the owner shall neglect,
or refuse, to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that the owner
fails to repair, the municipality shall cause the repairs to be made and assess
the property owner the expense of the repairs.
(1972 Code, § 8-209)
§ 92.29 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, order the construction or repair of
sidewalks on any lot, or parcel of land, within the municipality. The expense
of sidewalk construction or repair may be assessed to the lot, or parcel of
land, in front of which the construction or repairs are made after intention to
do so has first been given:
   (A)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation within the municipality; and
   (B)   By either serving a written notice upon the occupant in possession of
the property involved or posting such a notice upon the premises at least ten
days prior to the commencement of the construction or repair.
(Neb. RS 17-522) (1972 Code, § 8-210) (Ord. 565, passed 5-3-1977)
§ 92.30 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks hereafter laid, constructed, or reconstructed along any street
or avenue shall be in conformity with the plans and specifications as may be
prepared by the Municipal Engineer and adopted and approved by the Governing
Body.
(1972 Code, § 8-212) Penalty, see §
92.99
STREETS
§ 92.40 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   The Governing Body may at any time by ordinance rename a street, or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes, and located along the streets, shall be numbered in a manner provided
by the Governing Body. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector, upon
erection of any new building, or buildings, to assign the proper number to the
building, or buildings, and give notice to the owner, or owners, occupant, or
occupants, of the same. The owner or occupant shall display the number of the
building so assigned upon the front of the building in such a manner that the
numbers shall be easily visible from the street in front of the building.
Provided the numbers shall be a minimum height of three inches each.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of each multi-family
dwelling to number each dwelling unit located within the multi-family dwelling.
It shall further be the duty of the owner or manager of each multi-family
dwelling to post at a conspicuous place near the main door or main lobby of the
multifamily dwelling a list of the occupants of the multifamily dwelling and
their corresponding unit number; provided this shall not be required where the
dwelling unit has it own entrance from the outside.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner of each multiple home park to devise
a numbering system for each lot within the multiple home part and to
conspicuously display that number upon the lot so as to be visible from the
street in front of the lot.
(1972 Code, § 8-301) (Ord. 584, passed 10-4-1977) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 CROSSINGS.
   The Governing Body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, the street, avenue, and alley crossings
as the Governing Body shall deem necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the Municipal Clerk, the Municipal Clerk shall refer the application
to the Street Commissioner who shall investigate and recommend to the Governing
Body allowance, or rejection as final action by the Governing Body on the
application.
(1972 Code, § 8-302)
§ 92.42 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Municipal Street Commissioner authorizing the excavation.
(1972 Code, § 8-303) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.43 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever and using
the pavement as a mixing board for the material.
(1972 Code, § 8-304) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(1972 Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful acts
   
93.04   Handicapped person; discriminatory practices prohibited; design and
construction standards
   
93.05   Transaction related to residential real estate; discriminatory
practices prohibited
   
93.06   Multiple listing service; other service; discriminatory practices
prohibited
   
93.07   Religious organization, private home; private club, or housing for
older persons; restricting use not prohibited
   
93.08   Information
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general welfare of the
residents of Schuyler, Nebraska, by endorsing the provisions of the Nebraska
Fair Housing Act, Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-344, to the effect that there shall
be no discrimination in the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, in the acquisition,
ownership, possession, or enjoyment of housing in accordance with Article I,
Section 25, of the Constitution of the State of Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 20-113) (1972 Code, § 10-801) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that he or she will be injured by a discriminatory housing
practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more minors being domiciled with:
      (1)   A parent or another person having legal custody of the individual;
or
      (2)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with
written permission of the parent of other person.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment, excluding the current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Neb. RS 28-401, which
substantially limits one or more of the person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment; or
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
   PERSON. Shall include one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies; trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Shall include lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status, or ancestry.
(Neb. RS 20-304 through 20-317) (1972 Code, § 10-802) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-
1995)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status, or sex;
      (2)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status, or sex;
      (3)   Make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
      (4)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when the dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   Cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex
of a person seeking to purchase, rent, or lease any housing;
      (6)   Include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
      (7)   Discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of the employee or agent because of the employee’s compliance with
this chapter or the Nebraska Fair Housing Act; and
      (8)   Induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
(Neb. RS 20-318) (1972 Code, § 10-803) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.04 HANDICAPPED PERSON; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED; DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
      (3)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available.
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale of a dwelling or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
      (1)   The person;
      (2)   Any person associated with the person; or
      (3)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, discrimination shall include:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of rental, the landlord may,
when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on the
renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that
existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when the accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use or enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multifamily dwellings for first occupancy after 1-3-1995, a failure to design
and construct the dwellings in such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwelling are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (D)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of this section.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, covered multifamily dwellings shall
mean:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if the buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall require that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Neb. RS 20-319) (1972 Code, § 10-804) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.05 TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE; DISCRIMINATORY
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in transactions related to residential real estate to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction because
of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL
ESTATE shall mean any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person engaged in the
business of furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into
consideration factors other than race, color, religion, national origin,
handicap, familial status, or sex.
(Neb. RS 20-320) (1972 Code, § 10-805) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.06 MULTIPLE LISTING SERVICE; OTHER SERVICE; DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers
organization, or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any person
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status,
or sex.
(Neb. RS 20-321) (1972 Code, § 10-806) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-1995) Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.07 RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION, PRIVATE HOME; PRIVATE CLUB, OR HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS; RESTRICTING USE NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of a
dwelling which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes to
persons of the same religion or from giving preferences to such persons unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purposes, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodging to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit or limit the right of any
person or his or her authorized representative to refuse to rent a room or
rooms in his or her own home for any reason or for no reason or to change
tenants in his or her own home as often as desired, except that this exception
shall not apply to any person who makes available for rental or occupancy more
than four sleeping rooms to a person or family within his or her home.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. For purposes of this division (D),
HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS shall mean housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state program that the commission determines is
specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons or defined in the
program;
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Neb. RS 20-322) (1972 Code, § 10-807) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-1995)
§ 93.08 INFORMATION.
   The Municipal Clerk upon request shall make available to an aggrieved
person, or any other person, information regarding the Nebraska Fair Housing
Act and the Nebraska Equal Opportunity Commission without cost to the
individual.
(Neb. RS 20-301 through 20-322) (1972 Code, § 10-808) (Ord. 845, passed 1-3-
1995)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in
the particular section for which the person stands convicted of violating, the
penalty for the violation shall be in any amount not to exceed $500 and/or
shall be imprisoned for any length of time not to exceed three months, in the
discretion of the court. Nothing herein shall prevent prosecution under state
law where the possible penalty, either fine or imprisonment, exceeds the limits
specified herein.
(1972 Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Health; findings; intent; purpose
   
94.002   Definitions
Nuisances
   
94.003   Illustrative enumeration
   
94.004   Nuisances requiring expedited action and abatement
   
94.005   Weeds, litter, stagnant water and refuse
   
94.006   Inspections
   
94.007   Abatement, violations notice, assessment of costs and penalties for
failure to comply
   
94.008   Designation of Hearing Officer; procedure for administrative order and
administrative penalty; procedure for appeal
   
94.009   Affirmative defense
   
94.010   Jurisdiction
   
94.011   Slaughterhouses
   
94.012   Dumping of waste oil
Graffiti
   
94.050   Intent and purpose
   
94.051   Legislative determination
   
94.052   Definitions
   
94.053   Graffiti prohibited
   
94.054   Graffiti; notice of removal
   
94.055   City’s cost declared lien
   
94.056   Appeal
   
94.057   Removal by city
   
94.058   Private property consent forms
 
   
94.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 HEALTH; FINDINGS; INTENT; PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that certain conditions as hereinafter defined cause
annoyance, inconvenience, or damage to the public with respect to the public's
comfort, health, safety, welfare, and enjoyment of property. It is the purpose
and intent of the City Council to define and describe those conditions which
are injurious to the public and which constitute a public nuisance. It is
further the purpose and intent of the City Council to set forth and delegate
responsibility for procedures regarding notice, abatement, and prosecution of
those individuals who allow nuisance conditions to exist or maintain nuisance
conditions, which procedures are necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCAVATION. Any activity in which earth, rock, or other material in or on
the ground is moved or otherwise displaced by means of tools, equipment, or
explosives and shall include grading, trenching, digging, ditching, drilling,
augering, tunneling, scraping, and cable or pipe plowing or driving but shall
not include:
      (1)   Normal maintenance of roads if the maintenance does not change the
original road grade and does not involve the road ditch;
      (2)   Tilling of soil and gardening for seeding and other agricultural
purposes;
      (3)   Digging of graves or in landfills in planned locations;
      (4)   Maintenance or rebuilding or railroad track or facilities located
on a railroad right-of-way by the railroad company or its contractors when such
maintenance or rebuilding does not change the track grade; or
      (5)   Hand digging around the base of a pole for pole inspection as part
of suitable barriers, and which are not marked by warning lights during the
hours of darkness.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
   NUISANCE. Any condition which:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the health, safety, or welfare of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any private or private street, highway,
sidewalk, stream, ditch, or drainage way;
      (3)   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which the property is situated or such condition exists;
      (4)   By reason of being a fire hazard, as determined by the Nebraska
State Fire Marshal or the designated representative;
      (5)   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, for use on, in, upon,
about or around the aforesaid property, as determined by the City Building
Inspector or City Engineer. This provision shall provide regulations in
addition to §
150.02 of this code relating to unsafe buildings;
      (6)   By reason of deterioration or decay becomes rodent infested, or
which becomes a place frequented by trespassers and transients seeking a
temporary shelter or hideout;
      (7)   Maintaining a nuisance by act or by failure to perform a legal
duty, intentionally causing or permitting a nuisance to exist;
      (8)   Permitting a nuisance to exist is knowingly permitting lots,
parcels, or pieces of real property under the control of the offender,
including the streets and alleys in front of and abutting such lots and pieces
of land to be used or allowed to remain in such condition as to allow a
nuisance condition to exist;
      (9)   No person shall permit land to be covered with or contain refuse or
debris resulting from the construction activities or the demolishing of a
building, which refuse or debris has remained on the land for more than:
         (a)   Thirty days after the completion of the construction activities
or demolition work; or
         (b)   Six months after the permit for such activity or work was
granted, whichever is soonest.
   PERSON IN CHARGE OF PROPERTY. An agent, occupant, lessee, contract
purchaser, or other person having possession or control of property or the
supervision of any construction project.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR ABATING NUISANCE.
      (1)   The owner;
      (2)   The person in charge of the property;
      (3)   The person who caused to come into or continue in existence a
nuisance, as defined in this subchapter, or another ordinance of this city.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A building, way, place, or accommodation, whether publicly or
privately owned, open and available to the general public.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, stocks, dead
trees, branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers,
rags, or any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the
health of the residents of the municipality.
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
NUISANCES
§ 94.003 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining or permitting to be or remain on any public or private
property of any of the following conditions is hereby declared to be and
constitute a nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed
or construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive.
   (A)   In addition to the acts and conditions specifically enumerated in this
subchapter, any condition, thing, substance, or activity which is detrimental
to, injurious to, or constitutes a danger to the public health, safety, or
welfare is declared to be a nuisance and is subject to the abatement procedures
set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   A condition, thing, substance or activity declared to be a nuisance by
another ordinance of this city is subject to the abatement procedures of this
subchapter, if no abatement procedures are provided by such ordinance.
   (C)   Placement, storage, or accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, waste,
refuse, junk and other materials, metals, plumbing fixtures, appliances, auto
parts, junked, wrecked or inoperative vehicles, lumber or other litter and
furniture, stuffed furniture, clothing or other household items which creates
an unsightly appearance. This section applies without limitation to all areas
of land within the corporate city limits zoned for residential purposes, and
whether or not the building, land or property is occupied by human beings.
   (D)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, roaches, and
other vermin.
   (E)   All disagreeable or noxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches, to include, but not be limited to,
unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole
or any part of any dead animal, fowl, or fish.
   (F)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous.
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial wastes, or other substances
which are injurious to overland flow or groundwater.
   (H)   Any activity, operation, or condition which, after being ordered
abated, corrected, or discontinued by a lawful order of any agency or officer
of the city, continues to be conducted or continues to exist in violation of
any title of this code , any regulation enacted pursuant to this city code, any
statute of the state, or any violation of federal law.
   (I)   Any vacant or unoccupied structure, which is not secured or is in a
condition which allows access by any person.
   (J)   Attractive nuisances, which include:
      (1)   Unguarded machinery, equipment, or other devices which are
attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children;
      (2)   Lumber, logs, or pilings placed or stored in a manner so as to be
attractive, dangerous, and accessible to children;
      (3)   Open pit, quarry, cistern, or other excavation without safeguards
or barriers to prevent such places from being used by children;
      (4)   Construction projects will have appropriate safeguards in place to
prevent injury or death to playing children; and
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, or contractor in charge
of a construction or demolition site to permit the accumulation of litter or
the growth of grass or weeds in excess of ten inches before, during or
immediately following completion of any construction or demolition project. It
shall be the duty of the owner, agent or contractor in charge of a construction
site to furnish containers adequate to accommodate flyable or non-flyable
debris or trash at areas convenient to construction areas and to maintain and
empty the receptacles in such a manner and with such a frequency as to prevent
spillage.
   (K)   Dangerous excavations, which are not guarded by suitable barriers and
which are not marked during the hours of darkness.
   (L)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens, or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed, when the places in which animals are confined, or said premises on
which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom,
to the annoyance of inhabitants of the city, or are maintained and kept in such
a manner as to be injurious to the public health.
   (M)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which the buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof.
   (N)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which the places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof.
   (O)   Household furniture, manufactured or primarily intended for indoor use
within residences, commercial buildings or enclosed structures shall not be
located and/or used for outdoor purposes, which uses and/or locations are not
within residences, commercial buildings or enclosed structures, including open
residential porches. Provided, however, that such indoor furniture may be;
located and/or used for such outdoor purposes with the permission of the Chief
of Police, as health officer, for a period not exceeding 12 hours.
   (P)   White goods to include appliances such as refrigerators, ranges, water
heaters, freezers, unit air conditioners, washing machines, clothes dryers and
other similar domestic and commercial large appliances primarily manufactured
and intended for indoor use, shall not be located, stored or used for outdoor
purposes, which storage, use or locations are not within residences, commercial
buildings or enclosed structures, including open residential porches. Provided,
however, that white goods may be located or used for such outdoor purposes in
conjunction with residential patios when such appliances are specifically
manufactured and intended for such outdoor use and location.
   (Q)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
   (R)   No person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other business entity
shall knowingly or unknowingly maintain or permit a nuisance to exist.
Violation of this section shall be misdemeanor.
   (S)   For purposes of this section, abatement, violations notice to abate
and remove the nuisance shall be governed by the violations notice provision in
§
94.007.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013; Ord. 2014-17, passed 11-18-2014) Penalty, see
§
94.999
§ 94.004 NUISANCES REQUIRING EXPEDITED ACTION AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall permit or suffer to be in or accumulate in or upon any
yard, lot, place or premises, upon any street or sidewalk adjacent to or
abutting upon any lot, block, place or premises or in any building or shed
owned or occupied by that person within the city limits any stagnant water or
impure water, refuse, vegetable decay or decaying substance, garbage or filth
of any kind, including roaches and vermin, nor suffer the yard, lot, place,
building or premises to be or to remain in such condition as to cause or create
a nuisance or offensive smell or to pollute or render unhealthful the
atmosphere or the premises or thereby to be, become, cause or create a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Any person as described in division (A) above shall clean up the
premises and abate the nuisance within 48 hours after having received notice of
the condition from a police officer or Community Service Technician.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER AND REFUSE.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining, street
and alleys free of any growth of ten inches or more in height of weeds,
grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided, that grass,
leaves, and worthless vegetation may be used as ground mulch or in a compost
pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of ten inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Litter shall include, but not be limited to: trash, rubbish,
refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes; wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone
building rubble; grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation; offal and dead
animals; and any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk; and
      (2)   Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rahmnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
   (F)   In relationship to weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation, only one
notice of violation for weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation shall be
required to be give to the same owner/agent for the same property during the
calendar year. Further, it shall be a nuisance to permit or maintain any growth
of eight inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation on
any lot or piece of ground located within the corporate limits of the city
during any calendar year if, within the same calendar year, the city has, acted
to remove weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation exceeding ten inches in height
on the same lot or piece of ground and had to seek recovery of the cost and
expenses of such work from the owner.
   (G)   The abatement, violations notice to abate and remove the nuisance as
provided in this section shall be governed by the violations notice provision
in §
94.007. However, if the costs and expenses of the work related to this
subsection is not paid by the owner for two months after the work is done, the
city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of work upon the
lot or piece of ground and joining streets and alleys; or
      (3)   Any additional provisions or penalties as provided in §
94.999 providing for penalties including administrative penalties.
(Neb. RS 16-230 and 18-1720) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013; Ord. 2014-16,
passed 11-18-2014; Ord. 2014-17, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 94.006 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of Police, a sworn police officer or a Community Service
Technician approved by the city governing body, shall have the authority and it
shall be their duty to inspect and examine at any and all times all buildings,
lots, parcels or pieces or real property within the city for the purposes of
determining the conditions which may affect the public health, safety, and
welfare as a nuisance.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.007 ABATEMENT, VIOLATIONS NOTICE, ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AND PENALTIES FOR
FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Notice to abate and remove a nuisance shall be given to each owner or
owner's duly authorized agent and the occupant, if any, by personal service or
by first-class mail with such mail being conspicuously marked as to it
importance. The address for the property owner pursuant to the most recent real
estate tax statement issued by the Colfax County Treasurer regarding the
subject property shall be sufficient for address for such first class mail
unless the owner, duly authorized agent or occupant has provided to the city a
more recent or updated address. In addition to the foregoing, the city may, but
is not required to, post a notice on the subject lot or ground upon which the
nuisance is to be abated and removed. Except as provided in §
94.004, the notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   The notice shall contain an order to abate the nuisance within five
days (a notice of 48 hours shall apply to these nuisances as provided in §
94.004) of receipt of the notice if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece
of ground does not request a hearing with the city;
      (2)   The notice shall contain a list of persons to contact, the location
of the nuisance, the description of what constitutes the nuisance, a statement
of acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (3)   The statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within five days of receipt of the notice, the
person for whom such notice was made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and every 24 hours thereafter will be considered a separate offense (a notice
of 48 hours shall apply to those nuisances as provided in § 94.004);
      (4)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request of hearing is made, the city shall seek the non-exclusive remedy of an
administrative penalty of $50 per day, and that such administrative penalty
will continue to accrue for each day the nuisance continues to exist, and a
statement that the owner, occupant or agent may stop the approval of the
administrative penalty by abating the nuisance and advising the Chief of Police
or the Chief's designated representative of the abatement.
   (B)   The procedure for a property owner to appeal a nuisance citation shall
be as follows: Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner,
owner's duly authorized agent or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may
request a hearing with the city to appeal the decision to abate or remove a
nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   The City may seek the remedy of prosecution and enforcement for
failure to comply with the administrative order and notice of abatement for
maintaining a nuisance under this subchapter and the city will have the
authority to update such nuisance and assess the costs thereof against the
property and pursue any of the remedies available. That if the person on whom
notice to abate a nuisance was served pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter fails to abate the nuisance, the Chief of Police, or other duly
designated officer of the city, shall proceed to abate such nuisance and shall
prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement. Such statement of costs
and expenses shall be forwarded to the owner and shall be paid by the owner. If
said costs and expenses are unpaid for two months after such work is done, the
city may either:
      (1)   Pass a resolution for such costs and expenses and levy and set same
upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other
special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (D)   The procedure provided by this section is not exclusive, but is in
addition to procedures provided by other ordinances; and the Building
Inspector, Chief of Police, police officer or Community Service Technician, may
proceed summarily and without following the procedure set forth in this
section, to abate a health, safety, or other condition that constitutes, in the
opinion of a police officer, Community Service Technician or Building
Inspector, an immediate and grave hazard to public health and safety requiring
immediate action.
   (E)   As additional remedies, the governing body of the city may authorize
the filing of a cause of action in the District Court of Colfax County,
Nebraska, in the form of a complaint of public nuisance and requesting
abatement of same and if such abatement is caused by the city, to levy the cost
thereof as a special assessment against the property. Said special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments. Further, the governing body of the city shall
have authority to request the violating owner/party to appear before the
governing body and show cause why a subject property should not be declared a
public nuisance and abated.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013; Ord. 2014-16, passed 11-18-2014) Penalty, see
§
94.999
§ 94.008 DESIGNATION OF HEARING OFFICER; PROCEDURE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER AND
ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY; PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, the city shall designate an
Administrative Hearing Officer who shall have the duty and authority to enter
such administrative orders as are necessary to the enforcement of this
subchapter. The City Administrator is designated as the Administrative Hearing
Officer.
   (B)   The Administrative Hearing Officer, upon the request of the Chief of
Police, or the Chief's designated representative, shall review the violation
notice and all relevant information. If the Hearing Officer determines after
such review that a nuisance condition exists and no request for a hearing has
been made by the owner, occupant, or agent, and the nuisance condition remains
unabated, then the Hearing Officer may enter an administrative order. The
administrative order shall contain a finding of whether the city properly sent
notice to the owner, occupant, or agent in accordance with provisions herein; a
finding of the nuisance conditions which exist; the failure of the owner,
occupant, or agent to abate or otherwise remove the nuisance conditions; and an
administrative penalty not to exceed $50 per day for each day the nuisance
condition exists.
   (C)   In the event the owner, agent or occupant requests a hearing within
five days after receipt of notice of the nuisance pursuant to §
94.007(B), the Administrative Hearing Officer shall schedule a hearing on the
appeal within 14 days after filing of the appeal, which appeal shall be
conducted by the City Administrator. A written notice of the hearing date and
time shall be provided to the owner, agent or occupant requesting the appeal.
At the hearing, the owner, agent or occupant shall be given the opportunity to
present information relevant to the violation notice. The Chief of Police or
the Chief's designated representative also shall be given the opportunity to
present information relevant to the violation notice. The hearing may be
continued to a later time in exceptional cases where additional information is
needed as determined by the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall
otherwise render a decision on the appeal within five business days after the
conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the city may have such work
done as provided in the notice.
   (D)   The Administrative Hearing Officer may modify an order, including the
administrative penalty in cases of undue hardship or in cases presenting
extenuating or mitigating circumstances.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom an administrative order is
issued to fail to comply with the provisions of the administrative order.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013; Ord. 2014-16, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 94.009 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   Charges filed under this subchapter may be dismissed by the Court if at
trial the defendant proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the nuisance
then existing had been satisfactorily abated no more than ten calendar days
after the defendant received the citation of the nuisance.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.010 JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the municipality are directed to enforce
this subchapter against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief of
Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
subchapter shall include the corporate limits of the city, as amended.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.011 SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, use, keep or maintain any
slaughterhouse, slaughter yard or other place for the killing of animals within
the corporate limits in such manner as to render it offensive or injurious to
the health or property of any individual. It shall be unlawful for any person
to butcher or further process any animal after slaughter within the corporate
limits other than in a confined building and in compliance with all other laws,
rules and regulations. Any person erecting, using, keeping or maintaining the
slaughterhouse, yard or other place of killing of animals or who neglects or
refuses to abate the nuisance thereof within a 24-hour period after being
notified to do so by a police officer or Community Service Technician, shall be
deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance. Each 24-hour period the person
continues to maintain the nuisance after being notified by the police officer
or Community Service Technician to abate the nuisance, shall be and constitute
an additional offense. Any person slaughtering or butchering any animal within
the corporate limits in violation hereof, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. The slaughtering or butchering of each animal shall be and
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.012 DUMPING OF WASTE OIL.
   It shall be unlawful to intentionally, knowingly or recklessly dump, place,
pour or otherwise dispose of oil directly into or upon the ground, dirt,
streets or sewers within the corporate limits of the city. Violators shall be
subject to the penalties and provisions as contained in the balance of this
chapter including, but not limited to §
94.007 regarding abatement procedure.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
94.999
GRAFFITI
§ 94.050 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Graffiti on public and private property is a blighting factor which not only
depreciates the value of the property which has been the target of the
malicious vandalism, but also depreciates the value of the adjacent and
surrounding properties, and in so doing, negatively impacts upon the entire
community. The city has in the past undertaken to remove graffiti from public
property but has been unable to mount a successful program for encouraging the
owners of private property to undertake to remove graffiti and other inscribed
materials from walls, structures, etc. The legislation of the State of Nebraska
has authorized the city to define, regulate, suppress and prevent nuisance and
to declare what shall constitute a nuisance and to abate and remove the same.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.051 LEGISLATIVE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   This City Council finds and determines that graffiti is a nuisance and
unless it and other inscribed material is removed from public and private
properties, it tends to remain; and other properties are then in the target of
graffiti with the result that entire neighborhoods and indeed the community is
depreciated in value and made a less desirable place to be. The City Council
therefore determines that it is appropriate that the City of Schuyler
procedures implement the provisions of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943,
as amended, and provide for the removal of graffiti and other inscribed
material from both public and private property under the circumstances set
forth hereinafter.
   (B)   The City Council hereby declares as a matter of legislative
determination that:
      (1)   The increasing incidents of the defacement of public and private
property through the application of graffiti upon walls, rocks, bridges,
buildings, fences, gates, other structures, trees and other real and personal
property within the corporate boundaries of the city constitutes a blight on
this community, and, in the interests of the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents and taxpayers of the city, immediate steps must be
taken to remove this blight.
      (2)   When appropriate, the courts should require those who commit acts
of defacement of public or private property through the application of graffiti
to restore the property so defaced, damaged or destroyed.
      (3)   Obtaining convictions for the application of graffiti is difficult
due to the fact that the offense can be committed so very quickly and
secretively that witnesses to the act are frequently nonexistent.
      (4)   The public should be encouraged, to cooperate in the elimination of
graffiti by reporting to the proper authorities the incidents of the
application of graffiti which the members thereof observe.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.052 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. The defacing, damaging or destroying by spraying of paint or
marking of ink, chalk, dye or other similar substances on public and private
buildings, structures and places.
   GRAFFITI ABATEMENT PROCEDURE. An abatement procedure which identifies
graffiti, issues notice to the landowner to abate the graffiti, and cures in
absence of response.
   PRIVATE CONTRACTOR. Any person with whom the city shall have duly contracted
to remove graffiti.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.053 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write, paint or draw upon any wall,
rock, bridge, building, fence, gate, other structure, tree or other real or
personal property, either publicly or privately owned, any drawing,
inscription, figure or mark of the type which is commonly known and referred to
as graffiti within the city.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.054 GRAFFITI; NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever the Street Foreman or his or her designated representative
determines that graffiti exists on any public and private buildings, structures
and places which are visible to any person utilizing any public right-of-way in
this city, be this road, parkway, alley, or otherwise and that seasonal
temperatures permit the painting of exterior surfaces, the Chief of Police or
his or her designated representative shall cause a notice to be issued to abate
such nuisance. The property owner shall have seven days after the date of the
notice to remove the graffiti, or the same will be subject to abatement by the
city.
   (B)   The notice to abate graffiti pursuant to this action shall cause a
written notice to be served upon the owner(s) of the affected premises, as such
owner's name and address appears on the last property tax assessment rolls of
the County of Colfax. If there is no known address for the owner, the notice
shall be sent in care of the property address. The notice required by this
section may be served in any one of the following manners:
      (1)   By personal service on the owner, occupant or person in charge or
control of the property;
      (2)   By registered or certified mail addressed to the owner at the last
known address of the owner. If this address is unknown, the notice will be sent
to the property address.
   (C)   The notice shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF INTENT TO REMOVE GRAFFITI
      Date:
      NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that you are required by law at your expense to
remove or paint over the graffiti located on the property commonly known as
          , Schuyler, Nebraska, which is visible to public view, within seven
(7) days after the date of this notice; or, if you fail to do so, city
employees or private contractors employed by the city will enter upon your
property and abate the public nuisance by removal or painting over the
graffiti. The cost of the abatement by the city employees or its private
contractors will be assessed upon your property and such costs will constitute
a lien upon the land until paid.
      All persons having any objection to, or interest in said matters are
hereby notified to submit any objections or comments to the Chief of Police of
the City of Schuyler or his/her designated representative within seven (7) days
from the date of this notice. At the conclusion of this seven- (7-)day period
the city may proceed with the abatement of the graffiti inscribed on your
property at your expense without further notice.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.055 CITY'S COSTS DECLARED LIEN.
   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of the graffiti
nuisance under the provisions of this subchapter may constitute a lien against
the property upon which such nuisance existed.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.056 APPEAL.
   Within seven days from the mailing or personal service of the notice, the
owner or person occupying or controlling such premises or lot affected may
appeal to the City Council.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.057 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   Upon failure of persons to comply with the notice by the designated date, or
such continued date thereafter as the Chief of Police or his or her designated
representative approves, then the Chief of Police is authorized and directed to
cause the graffiti to be abated by city forces or private contract, and
the city or its private contractor is expressly authorized to enter upon the
premises for such purposes. All reasonable efforts to minimize damage from such
entry shall be taken by the city, and any paint used to obliterate graffiti
shall be as close as possible to background color(s). If the Chief of Police
provides for the removal of the graffiti or other inscribed material, he or she
shall not authorize nor undertake to provide for the painting or repair of any
more extensive area than that where the graffiti or other inscribed material is
located.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.058 PRIVATE PROPERTY CONSENT FORMS.
   Property owners in the city may consent in advance to city entry onto
private property for graffiti removal purposes. The city will make forms for
such consent available.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to
comply with the provisions herein, and every person failing to comply with, or
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall for each offense, be fined in
any sum not exceeding $500.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this
chapter, the municipality may proceed as set out in §
94.007, or by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may together with the fine, administrative penalty, or
penalty imposed enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the
case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722)
   (C)   Graffiti. Any person who is convicted of violating §
94.053 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $500, or by
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both fine and imprisonment. In
addition to that punishment, the court may, in imposing sentence, order the
defendant to restore the property so defaced, damaged or destroyed.
   (D)   Administrative penalty. There shall be an administrative penalty
assessed for each day a nuisance condition continues to exist pursuant to §
94.001 through and including §
94.012, after the expiration of the five calendar days allowed for abatement of
the nuisance as provided in §
94.007 or 48 hours as provided in §§
94.004 and
94.007. The administrative penalty shall be in an amount of $50 per day and
will continue to accrue for each day the nuisance continues to exist. The
calendar day shall be calculated based upon the date of the violation notice
under §
94.007. The city has the authority to collect said administrative penalty
directly from the person or property owner obligated to pay same.
Alternatively, if not collected administratively, the city may enforce such
penalty collection through the appropriate court jurisdiction.
(Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 2008-04, passed 7-15-2008; Ord. 2013-06,
passed 5-21-2013)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
95.01   Life Safety Code
   
95.02   Fire Prevention Code
   
95.03   Fire Code enforcement
   
95.04   Lawful entry
   
95.05   Inspection
   
95.06   Fire limits; defined
   
95.07   Fire limits; building permit
   
95.08   Fire limits; materials
   
95.09   Roofing materials
   
95.10   Permitted repairs
   
95.11   Removal required
   
95.12   Lumber yards
   
95.13   Open burning ban; waiver
   
95.14   Poisonous and flammable gases
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this code are the standards recommended by
the National Fire Protection Association, known as the Life Safety Code, 2000
Edition. This code shall have the same force and effect as if set out verbatim
herein. One copy of the Life Safety Code is on file with the City Clerk and
shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 803A, passed 8-20-1991; Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.02 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this code and made a part of this chapter as though spread at
large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto.
   (B)   The National Fire Prevention Code, 2000 Edition, and all subsequent
amendments and additions thereto, are incorporated herein by reference. Said
code shall have the same force and effect as if set forth verbatim herein. One
copy of said Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the City Clerk and
shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 959, passed 4-2-2002; Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.03 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all city officials to enforce the incorporated fire
code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief of the Schuyler Rural Fire Protection District #3.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.04 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
of the Schuyler Rural Fire Protection District #3 or his Fire Department
designee to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said
structure for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions
therein that are likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the
provisions of the city ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Because of the age of the structures in the Central Business District
(CBD) as defined by the Zoning Code of the city and because of the close
proximity of the structures in said zone, the City Council finds that the
prevention of fire or other hazard in said zone is of particular importance and
necessity.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Schuyler Rural Fire District #3, or a Fire
Department member designated by the Chief, and the City Building Inspector
shall inspect every structure located in the CBD Central Business District Zone
at least one time annually. They shall inspect for potential fire sources to
prevent fires, other hazards, building code violations and zoning violations.
If any violations should be found, the Fire Chief and the Building Inspector
shall exercise all powers granted to them under the City Code.
   (C)   These inspections shall take place at reasonable times and hours. To
the extent reasonably possible, they shall take place in the presence of either
the structure's owner, lessee or tenant or other occupant. Structures used as
single-family dwellings shall be exempt from these inspections.
(Ord. 956, passed 3-19-2002; Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.06 FIRE LIMITS; DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the city shall be and constitute the
fire limits:
   Beginning at the intersection of D Street and the north line of the Union
Pacific Railroad Company right-of-way, thence south to 10th Street, thence west
to a point on the east line of Colfax Street, thence north from said point to
the northeast corner of the intersection of 11th Street and Colfax Street,
thence west along the north line of 11th Street one-half block, thence north
one block to the north line of 12th Street, thence west along the north line of
the 12th Street, to Adam Street and thence north to north line of the Union
Pacific Railroad Company right-of-way, thence in an easterly direction along
the north line of said right-of-way to the place of beginning.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.07 FIRE LIMITS; BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the governing body. Construction shall include the
enlarging or alteration of any building in the fire limits. Such application
shall be issued by the City Clerk and shall require such information as the
governing body deems necessary to determine whether or not to grant a building
permit. In the case of an application to move a building within the fire
limits, a 2/3 vote of the governing body shall be required for approval. Permit
granting permission to move a combustible building within the fire limits shall
not be issued unless and until the moving party has furnished the city with a
good and sufficient bond to save the city harmless from any liability
occasioned by such removal.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.08 FIRE LIMITS; MATERIALS.
   With the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered, moved,
or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with such combustible
materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said structure will be
reasonably fire proof.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.09 ROOFING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, reconstruct, replace or
repair the roof of any building or structure within the fire limits with wooden
shake style roofing materials.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.10 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any building
in the fire limits where the cost of repair is less than 50% unless the said
person shall first submit an application to make such repairs, alterations, or
to add to any building and shall state on the application that the material
used will be non-combustible and approved by the Fire Chief and Building
Inspector. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not
require a permit. In the event that the repairs, alterations, or additions is
to cost, or involve, more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required
to apply for a new building permit which shall state that the building, when
completed, shall be fireproof and made of non-combustible materials.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.11 REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure, or any
non-combustible building which stands within the fire limits is damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall not
be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed within 60 days from
the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.12 LUMBER YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish, or maintain any
lumber yard or place for the piling, storing, keeping, or selling any lumber,
or to keep any lime, lath, shingles, hay, straw, or other combustible materials
on any lot or parcel of ground within said fire limits, unless the same is
securely kept in a building constructed of brick, stone, concrete, or other
noncombustible material; provided, the foregoing shall not apply to lumber
yards now built and in use.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.13 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of Schuyler Rural Fire Protection District #3 may waive
an open burning ban under division (A) of this section for an area within the
municipality by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a
person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire
Chief, and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the Fire Department's
jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone intending to
burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been waived shall
notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to starting the
burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) of this
section.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.14 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas, except those storage facilities in existence at the
time of the passage of this chapter, or add to, enlarge, or replace any
existing facility used for the storage of such gases, must first get permission
from the governing body; provided, it shall be lawful to store gasoline in
amounts not exceeding five gallons without permission; provided further, it
shall be lawful to store gasoline and liquefied petroleum gas in quantities
greater than provided herein when the storage container is connected directly
to the engine of facility which consumes the gasoline or liquefied petroleum
gas without permission.
   (B)   Before permission has been granted, the governing body shall require
the name of the gas, the place of storage, and the amount of gas stored. It
shall then be the duty of the governing body to prescribe such rules,
regulations, and precautionary actions as they may deem necessary.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the storage of
gasoline in an underground tank or storage facility. The storage of gasoline in
an underground tank or storage facility shall be prohibited in the (R) Dwelling
District. Underground storage facility shall not include a basement in any
dwelling, business establishment, or other building commonly frequented by
persons.
(Ord. 523, 5-16-1976; Ord. 556, 11-2-1976; Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-19-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   VENDORS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
      
114.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
115.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: VENDORS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose and intent
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License required
   
110.04   Application for license
   
110.05   Issuance of licenses and identification badges
   
110.06   License fees
   
110.07   Display of identification badges and other permits
   
110.08   Notification change
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   Claims of exemption
   
110.11   Littering and trash removal
   
110.12   Prohibited conduct
   
110.13   Suspension and revocation of license
   
110.14   Appeals
   
110.15   Renewals
   
110.16   Construction
   
110.17   Advertising signs
 
   
110.99   Penalties
§ 110.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of the City Council in enacting this chapter:
      (1)   To serve and protect the health, safety and welfare of the general
public;
      (2)   To establish a uniform set of rules and regulations that are fair
and equitable;
      (3)   To develop a vending system that will enhance the overall
appearance and environment along public streets, pedestrian ways, and other
public properties;
      (4)   To provide economic development opportunities to small
entrepreneurs in the city; and
      (5)   To promote stable vendors who will enrich the city's ambiance and
be assets to public security.
   (B)   The regulations contained in this chapter are not intended to prohibit
or hamper speech that is protected by the First Amendment of the United States
Constitution, but merely to regulate specific activities that are commercial in
nature.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following words, terms, and phrases, and
their derivations, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CONVEYANCE. Includes any public or privately owned vehicle, method or means
of transporting people, bicycles, motorized or non-motorized vehicle, handcart,
pushcart, lunch wagon or any other device or thing, whether or not mounted on
wheels.
   GOODS, WARES, MERCHANDISE. Shall include, but not be limited to, fruits,
vegetables, farm products or provisions, plants, flowers, appliances, wearing
apparel, jewelry, ornaments, art work, toys, cosmetics and beauty aids, health
products, medicines, household needs or furnishings; except that this chapter
shall not apply to those residents of Colfax County, Nebraska or residents
within ten miles of the city limits, whichever is greater, involved in the
conveyance, sale or offer of farm products produced or raised (not processed)
by a vendor from land occupied and cultivated by him or her. Also excluded are
vendors exclusively governed by the provisions of city mobile food vendor
ordinance.
   INTERSECTION. The convergence of two or more public ways and, for purposes
of this chapter, proximity measurements will be taken from the outermost
perimeters of said converging public ways.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for displaying, storing, or transporting
articles for sale by a vendor which is required to be licensed and registered
by the State Department of Motor Vehicles of any state.
   PRIVATE SPACE. Includes privately owned property, whether developed or
undeveloped, which is properly zoned for retail sales.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Includes all city-owned parks and city-owned property within
street rights-of-way, including any roadways and sidewalks.
   PUBLIC WAY. All areas legally open to public use such as public streets,
sidewalks, roadways, highways, parkways, alleys, parks, as well as the areas
surrounding and immediately adjacent to public buildings.
   PUSHCART. Any wheeled vehicle approved by the city and in accordance with
this chapter designed for carrying property and for being pushed by a person
without the assistance of a motor or motor vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. All areas legally open to public use as a pedestrian public way
between the curb line and the legal building line of the abutting property.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any occasion including but not limited to fairs, shows,
exhibitions, city-wide celebrations, and festivals taking place within a
specifically defined area within the jurisdiction of the city for a period of
time; and/or which special event is approved by the City Council; provided,
however, that any event occurring on city owned property must be approved by
City Council.
   STAND. Any showcase, table, bench, rack, handcart, pushcart, stall or any
other fixture or device that is used for the purpose of displaying, exhibiting,
carrying, transporting, storing, selling or offering for sale any food,
beverages, goods, wares or merchandise.
   STREET. All that area legally open to public use as public streets, and
sidewalks, roadways, highways, parkways, alleys and any other public way.
   VENDOR. Any person, traveling by foot, wagon, vehicle or any other type of
conveyance from street to street carrying, conveying, or transporting goods,
wares, or merchandise and offering and exposing them for sale, or making sales
and delivering articles to purchasers; or who, without traveling from place to
place, exhibits, displays, sells or offers for sale such products from a wagon,
handcart, pushcart, motor vehicle, conveyance or from his or her person while
on the public ways of the city or upon private space. A VENDOR also includes
any street vendor, hawker, huckster, itinerant merchant, transient vendor, or
door-to-door salesperson.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which a person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a street or sidewalk, including, but not limited to,
devices moved by human power.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of vending
unless he or she has first obtained a license from the city. All licenses shall
be issued according to regulations established by the city including submitting
to a background check, liability insurance and Fidelity Bond and application/
license fees in the amounts designated and approved by City Council, by
resolution or motion. Each conveyance or location must obtain a separate
license.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   The application for a vending license shall contain all information
relevant and necessary to determine whether a particular license may be issued,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, permanent address, telephone number and
proof of identity;
      (2)   A brief description of the nature, character and quality of goods,
wares or merchandise to be offered for sale;
      (3)   The specific location, if any, in which the vendor intends to
conduct business, and the length of time during which it is proposed the
business will be conducted;
      (4)   If the applicant is employed by another, the name and address of
the person, firm, association, organization, company or corporation;
      (5)   If a motor vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle
together with the motor vehicle registration number and license number; and
      (6)   A sales tax permit as required by Neb RS 77-2705.
      (7)   If the applicant intends to operate from a private space, the
location, and written permission of the record title owner of the private
space;
      (8)   A background check will be conducted annually by the Police
Department/Colfax County Sheriff/City of Schuyler Staff with all applicable
information being provided to the city's licensing specialist. The applicant
shall submit to photographing. No permit shall be granted to any person:
         (a)   Who has been convicted for a sex crime as defined by Neb RS 29-
4001 through 29-4014, or any indecent exposure for which they are still subject
to registration requirements;
         (b)   Who has a conviction or date of discharge from prison, jail,
probation, or parole within the last five years for all other indecent exposure
(Class 1 misdemeanor);
         (c)   Who has a conviction or date of discharge from prison, jail,
probation, or parole within the last ten years of application for a crime of
violence;
         (d)   Who has a conviction or date of discharge from prison, jail,
probation, or parole within the last five years of application for felony
possession/distribution of controlled substances;
         (e)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in
the application for a permit or made in connection with the selling of any
products, which is the subject of these guidelines;
         (f)   Conviction of the applicant of any felony or misdemeanor
involving a crime of moral turpitude; or
         (g)   For any good cause.
   (B)   Any conviction for an offense in another state which, if committed in
this state, would be a violation of one of the offenses listed above shall be
used to determine if applicant is eligible for a license.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION BADGES.
   (A)   The city shall deny any application for license when:
      (1)   It shall appear that a license shall be in conflict with any of the
provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   When the applicant shall not provide the required information;
      (3)   When a license shall be in conflict with a license previously
issued for a specific location; or
      (4)   When it appears that the application is for a private space that
does not have adequate access or an improved surface which will provide ground-
water runoff and allow for litter removal.
   (B)   The applicant shall be notified in writing by the city of the city's
decision to issue or deny the vending license no later than ten business days
after the applicant has filed a completed application with the city.
   (C)   Each license shall show the name and address of the licensee, the type
of license issued, the kind of goods to be sold the amount of the license fee.
the date of issuance, the license number, the expiration date, an identifying
description of any vehicle or conveyance used by the licensee plus, where
applicable, the motor vehicle registration number.
   (D)   Vendor must provide the city with names of employees or other
individuals who will help operate the business.
   (E)   All licenses and permits issued under this section are valid for the
term of the license fee paid by the vendor unless suspended or revoked and
shall be both non-assignable and non-transferable.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.06 LICENSE FEES.
   Any vendor granted a vending license under this chapter shall pay a license
fee as established by resolution or motion approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.07 DISPLAY OF IDENTIFICATION BADGES AND OTHER PERMITS.
   Any license or permit issued by the city shall be carried with the licensee
whenever he or she is engaged in vending and shall be properly and
conspicuously displayed at all times during the operation of the vending
business.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.08 NOTIFICATION CHANGE.
   All vendors shall assure that a current and correct name, residence address,
mailing address and telephone number are on file with the city. Whenever either
the name or address provided by a licensed vendor on his or her application for
a vending license changes, the licensee shall notify the city in writing within
seven days of such change and provide the same with the name change or address
change. The vendor must notify the city whenever he or she changes the nature
of the vending operation such as adding prepared food merchandise when food was
previously not offered, and additional permits may then be required.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
   (A)   Goods, wares, or merchandise temporarily deposited on the sidewalk in
the ordinary course of delivery, shipment or transfer;
   (B)   The placing and maintenance of unattended stands or sales devices for
the sale, display or offering for sale of newspapers, magazines, periodicals
and paperbound books;
   (C)   The distribution of free samples of goods, wares and merchandise by
any individual from his or her person;
   (D)   Vendors who are residents of Colfax County, Nebraska, or residents
within ten miles of the city limits of the city whichever is greater, involved
in the conveyance or sale or offer of farm products produced or raised (not
processed) by a vendor from a farm occupied and cultivated by him or her;
   (E)   Vendor who is owned by or under the exclusive direction of a non-
profit entity or governmental subdivision within the Schuyler, Nebraska area
for a specific event or purpose;
   (F)   Vendors participating in special events;
   (G)   Merchants offering goods for sale from a permanent structure in an
appropriate zoning area of the city;
   (H)   Fireworks stands licensed and regulated by the State of Nebraska; and
   (I)   Vendors operating exclusively within the provisions of the city mobile
food vendors ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.10 CLAIMS OF EXEMPTION.
   Any person claiming to be legally exempt from the regulations set forth in
this chapter, or from the payment of a license fee, shall cite to the City
Clerk the statute or other legal authority under which exemption is claimed and
shall present to the City Clerk proof of qualification for such exemption. The
City Clerk shall respond within ten business days.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.11 LITTERING AND TRASH REMOVAL.
   (A)   Vendors shall keep the sidewalks, roadways and other spaces adjacent
to their vending sites or locations clean and free of paper, peelings and
refuse of any kind generated from the operation of their businesses. All trash
or debris accumulating within 100 feet of any vending stand shall be collected
by the vendor and deposited in a trash container.
   (B)   Persons engaged in food vending shall affix to their vending station,
vehicle, pushcart or other conveyance a receptacle for litter that shall be
maintained and emptied regularly and marked as being for litter.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No person authorized to engage in the business of vending under this chapter
shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Obstruct traffic signals or regulatory signs;
   (B)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle, pushcart or any other conveyance upon
any street for the purpose of selling during the hours when parking, stopping
and standing have been prohibited by signs or curb markings;
   (C)   Leave any conveyance unattended at any time; or store, park, or leave
such conveyance in a public space overnight;
   (D)   Use a conveyance that, when fully loaded with merchandise, cannot be
easily moved and maintained under control by the licensee, his or her employee,
or an attendant;
   (E)   Sound any device that produces a loud and raucous noise or operate any
loudspeaker, public address system, radio, sound amplifier, or similar device
to attract public attention, or otherwise violate noise regulations of the City
Code;
   (F)   Conduct his or her business in such a way as would restrict or
interfere with the ingress or egress of the abutting property owner or tenant,
create a nuisance, increase traffic congestion or delay, constitute a hazard to
traffic, life or property, or obstruct adequate access to emergency and
sanitation vehicles; and
   (G)   Sell any goods, wares or merchandise within districts or on streets
that have been or shall be hereafter so designated by the City Council to-wit:
Central business district and any and all public streets, and city owned
property, unless approved by City Council.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.13 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties contained in this chapter, any license
issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or knowingly false statement contained in
the application for the license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or knowingly false statement in the course
of carrying on the business of vending;
      (3)   Conducting the business of vending in any manner contrary to the
conditions of the license;
      (4)   Conducting the business of vending in such a manner as to create a
public nuisance, cause a breach of the peace, constitute a danger to the public
health, safety, welfare or morals, or interfere with the rights of abutting
property owners; or
      (5)   The provisions of the background check becomes applicable after
applicant's license has been approved.
   (B)   The city shall provide written notice of the suspension or revocation
in a brief statement setting forth the complaint, the grounds for suspension or
revocation, and notifying the licensee of his or her right to appeal. Such
notice shall be mailed to the address shown on the license holder's application
by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   If the city revokes a vending license or permit, the fee already paid
for the license or permit shall be forfeited. A person whose license or permit
has been revoked under this section may not apply for a new license for a
period of one year from the date that the revocation took effect.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.14 APPEALS.
   If the city denies the issuance of a license or permit, suspends or revokes
a license or permit, or orders the cessation of any part of the business
operation conducted under the license or permit, the aggrieved party may appeal
the city's decision to the City Council.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.15 RENEWALS.
   A vending license may be renewed, provided an application for renewal and
license fees are received by the city no later than the expiration date of the
current license. Any application received after that date shall be processed as
a new application. The city shall review each application for renewal, and upon
determining that the applicant is in full compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, shall issue a new license.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.16 CONSTRUCTION.
   No part of this chapter or the chapter itself shall be construed to be an
amplification or derogation of the rights or responsibilities of abutting
property owners. Any remedies, rights or obligations provided to such property
owners or their successors in interest under the law of real property or their
successors in interest under the law of real property or the laws of the State
of Nebraska shall be in addition to the remedies, rights, obligations or
penalties provided hereunder.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.17 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   All signs advertising a permitted vending business hereunder must conform to
the following requirements:
   (A)   A maximum of two signs are allowed per vending location;
   (B)   Each sign allowed may not exceed 16 square feet in area;
   (C)   The signs must be attached to the trailer, tent table or other display
area of the licensed vendor; and
   (D)   Free-standing signs are not permitted, unless approved by the city.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
§ 110.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   The penally for violating any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable section of the city code shall be, in addition to any other
sanctions provided, a fine not exceeding $500 for each offense together with
revocation or suspension of the vendor's license. Each violation shall be
evidenced by a separate written notice presented at the time of citation for
the offense. Each day of violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any business activity in violation of this chapter is further declared
to be a nuisance as being against the public health, safety and welfare, and in
addition to any penalty imposed, the Court may enter an order of abatement as
part of the judgment of that case.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 8-7-2018)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pool, Billiards, and Bowling
   
111.01   Regulation
   
111.02   Notice
   
111.03   Sunday closing
   
111.04   Inspections
   
111.05   Miscellaneous prohibitions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
POOL, BILLIARDS, AND BOWLING
§ 111.01 REGULATION.
   Any person desiring to open, maintain, or operate any public pool hall,
billiard hall, or bowling alley for pay or hire shall make application in
writing to the Municipal Clerk upon a form provided by the municipality for
that purpose. The applicant shall particularly describe the location of the
proposed billiard hall, pool hall, or bowling alley and shall set out the name
or names of the person or persons applying for the license. The applicant shall
accompany his or her application with the occupation tax as prescribed in
Chapter 114. The payment of the occupation tax shall entitle the licensee to
operate his or her pool hall, billiard hall, or bowling alley until May 1
succeeding the date of issue. All occupation taxes so paid shall be credited to
the General Fund. When an application is made, the Clerk shall request the
Chief of Police to examine the premise upon which the license is to be granted
and to investigate the character and reputation of the applicant. The Chief of
Police shall make a report thereof to the Governing Body at its next regular
meeting and, upon receiving the report, the Governing Body shall determine
whether or not a license should be granted to the applicant. The Clerk shall
issue the license when granted by the Governing Body under the seal of the
municipality and the license shall authorize applicant to conduct a billiard
hall, pool hall, or bowling alley at the location described in the application.
The license year shall commence on May 1 and shall end on the thirtieth day of
the succeeding April.
(1972 Code, § 10-201) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 NOTICE.
   The owner or operator of every billiard hall or pool hall shall at all times
keep posted at the entrance to the hall or place a notice or sign which can be
easily read from the outside stating that minors under the age of 18 years are
prohibited from entering and shall also keep at least three of the signs posted
in conspicuous places within the hall.
(1972 Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 SUNDAY CLOSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to maintain or operate his or her pool
hall or billiard hall on the first day of the week commonly called Sunday. It
shall be unlawful to operate a pool hall or billiard hall between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the secular days.
(1972 Code, § 10-203) (Ord. 627, passed 11-6-1979) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 INSPECTIONS.
   Every room or place used for the purpose of playing pool, billiards, or
bowling shall be subject to inspection by the municipal police at any time when
the police officers shall deem it necessary.
(1972 Code, § 10-204)
§ 111.05 MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the recipient of any license under this chapter to
permit in the hall or alley any disturbance of the peace, drunkenness,
fighting, the sale, use, presence, or drinking of any alcoholic liquors therein
unless the licensees hereunder are also recipients of licenses under the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act to sell beer at retail on-sale and off-sale for the
same premise, recipients of licenses to sell hard liquor being ineligible to
become recipients of licenses to operate billiard halls, pool halls, or bowling
alleys. It shall further be unlawful to allow or permit therein any lewd or
obscene pictures or practices, gambling of any nature, or the use of any checks
or chips, except in exchange for merchandise.
(1972 Code, § 10-205) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in
the particular section for which the person stands convicted of violating, the
penalty for that violation shall be in any amount not to exceed $500 and/or
shall be imprisoned for any length of time not to exceed three months, in the
discretion of the court. Nothing herein shall prevent prosecution under state
law where the possible penalty, either fine or imprisonment, exceeds the limits
specified herein.
(1972 Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
112.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
112.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
112.20   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
112.21   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
112.22   Licensee requirements
   
112.23   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
112.24   Licensed premises; inspections
   
112.25   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
112.26   Catering licenses
   
112.27   Display of license
   
112.28   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
112.29   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
112.30   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
112.45   Location
   
112.46   Access to dwellings
   
112.47   Sanitary conditions
   
112.48   Hours of sale
   
112.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
112.50   (Reserved)
   
112.51   Original package required
   
112.52   (Reserved)
   
112.53   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 112.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver, or
permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished as provided in §
10.99 of this municipal code.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2), it is unlawful for any person to
consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or controlled by the state or any
governmental subdivision thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies
having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open to the
general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon
the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant
to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any person to consume
alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place open
to the general public except as permitted by a license issued for such premises
pursuant to the Act. This division does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
§ 112.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. The effort at placement shall
be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts such facilities or doctor which
have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such individuals
and which regularly do accept such individuals. If these efforts are
unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place the intoxicated
person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall
be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and
under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 112.20 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the puipose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers In the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (Ord. 2016-10, passed 12-20-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship,
or cause to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for
the personal use of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of
alcoholic liquor in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.22 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18,1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless ah the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) of this
section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive
a license under this section for any reason. This division shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125) (Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012; Ord. 2016-10, passed 12-20-
2016)
§ 112.23 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report in writing to the Executive
Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery license upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in this section, it determines that the licensee
has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any
valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted,
adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days
after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission.
The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an
application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs; and
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediate adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee or
to an immediate adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50 days
for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to exceed 15
days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS 53-129.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business or any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-16-2012; Ord. 2016-10, passed 12-20-2106; Ord. 2021-01,
passed 1-5-2021)
§ 112.24 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the premises
of all retail licensees. If it is found that any such licensee is violating any
provision of this chapter, the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, or the rules and
regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe
in good faith the purposes of this chapter or the Act, the license may be
suspended, canceled, or revoked after the licensee is given an opportunity to
be heard in his or her defense.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 112.25 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and
outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in the absence of a
written request by the City Council to require the licensee to submit an
application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an area which
is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a license, and while
the application is pending, the licensee may continue all license privileges
until the original license expires or is canceled or revoked. If that license
expires within 60 days following the annexation date of the area, the license
may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 112.26 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Governing Body shall process
the application in the same manner as provided for other alcoholic liquor
retail licenses.
   (C)   The Governing Body, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Governing Body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
Governing Body. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012)
§ 112.27 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.28 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city
ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be subject
to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.29 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by
any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if
the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.30 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee subject to the jurisdiction
of the City Council has been or is violating any provision of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The
complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the City Council and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining. The complaint shall
state the particular provision, rule, or regulation believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which belief is based. If the City
Council is satisfied that the complaint substantially charges a violation and
that from the facts alleged there is reasonable cause for that belief, it shall
set the matter for hearing within ten days from the date of the filing of the
complaint and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the
hearing and of the particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in
all cases be disposed of by the City Council within 30 days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as
provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within
150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons
or for veterans, their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously
prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued if the commission
gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as prescribed in Neb.
RS 53-133.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premises within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university
within the municipality, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
(Ord. 2011-11, passed 3-6-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99 
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-foot requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 112.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which have any access which leads from the premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purposes, and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use
by the public. This provision shall not prevent any connection between the
premises and such other portion of the building or structure which is used only
by the licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the city police may
make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed
in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning
the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 112.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer and wine, shall be sold at retail
or dispensed on any day between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. The City
Council with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the city may by
ordinance require closing prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be permissible to sell alcoholic liquor, including beer
and wine for consumption on the premises, and also off-sale, on any day between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m the following day.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the city except during the hours
provided herein:
 
Alcoholic Liquors (Except Beer and Wine)
Daily, including Sunday
Off-Sale 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
On-Sale  6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
 
Beer and Wine
Daily
Off-Sale 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
On-Sale  6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 2:15 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day. If the City Council provides by
ordinance for an earlier closing hour, the provisions of this division (C)
shall become effective 15 minutes after such closing hour instead of 2:15 a.m.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) (Ord. 546, passed 6-20-1976; Ord. 692, passed 7-20-1982; Ord.
805, passed 9-3-1991; Ord. 2010-06, passed 7-20-2010; Ord. 2013-03, passed 2-
19-2013; Ord. 2014-10, passed 9-16-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) (Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-17-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.50 (RESERVED).
§ 112.51 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.52 (RESERVED).
§ 112.53 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells beer
for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity of five
or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the date of
the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and address, and
the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license, state
identification card, or military identification, if the military identification
contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature.
This record shall be on a form prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where
the purchase was made for not less than six months. The records kept pursuant
to this section shall be available for inspection by any law enforcement
officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any
person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as
provided in §
10.99 of this municipal code.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a beer container or is in possession of a beer
container described in division (A) with an altered or removed keg
identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99 of this municipal code.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
Section
Plumbers
   
113.001   License required
   
113.002   Examination
   
113.003   Plumber contractor's certificate of insurance
   
113.004   Registration of firm
   
113.005   Expiration and renewal of registration
   
113.006   Nonresident re-application
   
113.007   Lapsed registrations
   
113.008   Revocation of certificate of registration
   
113.009   Unlawful transfer of certificate
   
113.010   Fees
   
113.011   Exceptions
Gas Fitters
   
113.025   Registration required
   
113.026   Examination required
   
113.027   Bond
   
113.028   Registration of firm
   
113.029   Expiration and renewal of registration
   
113.030   Revocation of certificate of registration
   
113.031   Lapsed registrations
   
113.032   Unlawful transfer of certificate
   
113.033   Nonresident registration
   
113.034   Fees
   
113.035   Exceptions
Electricians
   
113.050   License required
   
113.051   Classification of license
   
113.052   Examination
   
113.053   Electrician contractor's certificate of insurance
   
113.054   Registration of firm
   
113.055   Expiration and renewal of certificate of registration
   
113.056   Revocation of certificate of registration
   
113.057   Unlawful use
   
113.058   Electrician; fees
   
113.059   Nonresidents
   
113.060   Exceptions
Bicycle Dealers
   
113.075   Required records
Garbage Collection
   
113.090   Municipal contract
   
113.091   Conveyance
   
113.092   Franchise
   
113.093   Operation without franchise
Railroad Companies
   
113.120   Safe crossing
   
113.121   Railroad companies; lighting
   
113.122   Obstructing traffic
   
113.123   Automatic signals
   
113.124   Lighted platforms
   
113.125   Speed; maximum
Building Moving
   
113.140   Regulations; permit required
   
113.141   Definitions
   
113.142   Permit required; off street parking and garage required
   
113.143   Compliance
   
113.144   Bond
   
113.145   Interfering with poles or wires
   
113.146   Cleaning premises
   
113.147   Newly constructed building
   
113.148   Fee required
   
113.149   Hearing
   
113.150   Small buildings
 
   
113.999   Penalty
PLUMBERS
§ 113.001 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall hereafter engage in or work at the business of a master
plumber or journeyman plumber in the municipality until he or she shall have
registered as a master plumber or journeyman plumber. Application for
registration shall be made in writing to the Utilities Superintendent on blank
forms prepared and furnished by the Superintendent, showing the name and
residence of the applicant, the business location of the applicant, and any
other information as may be required.
(Neb. RS 18-1911) (1972 Code, § 10-401) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.002 EXAMINATION.
   (A)   Before the applicant shall be registered as a master plumber or
journeyman plumber, he or she shall submit to an examination to determine his
or her fitness and competency to engage in the business of a master plumber or
journeyman plumber, which examination shall be given by the Examining Board as
hereinafter provided. Upon the payment of the required registration fee, the
applicant, after having by the examination shown himself or herself to the
satisfaction of the Examining Board to be fit, competent, and qualified to
engage in the business of a master plumber or journeyman plumber and having
gained final approval from the Board, shall be registered and given a
certificate of registration signed by the Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board. Any applicant who fails to pass the required examination shall not be
eligible to again take the examination until six months have elapsed.
   (B)   The examination shall consist of two parts:
      (1)   Written examination, which shall count as 50%; and
      (2)   Personal interview and past experience, which shall count as 50%.
   (C)   The examination shall be passed to the satisfaction of the Examining
Board. A grade of 75% shall be considered as passing. An examination fee set by
resolution of the Governing Body shall be paid to the Utilities Superintendent
upon application for a license. Nonresident applicants, upon their satisfying
the Examining Board, shall be granted a One Job License.
(Neb. RS 18-1907 and 18-1910) (1972 Code, § 10-402)
§ 113.003 PLUMBER CONTRACTOR'S CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   Before the issuance of a registration as a plumber contractor, such person
shall furnish and maintain during all times that the plumber contractor
registration is in effect, bodily injury and property damage liability
insurance coverage with limits of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence. The
registrant shall furnish the City Clerk with a certificate of such insurance
coverage, which shall note that the insurance coverage shall not be terminated
except upon 30 days' written notice to the city. The policy of insurance
required by this section shall be purchased at the expense of the registrant,
shall be in effect for at least one year from the date of registration, and
shall provide coverage of products, hazards and completed operations.
Cancellation of the policy shall automatically suspend the registration until a
substitute policy has been obtained, and a certificate of that fact filed in
the office of the City Clerk. Such insurance will indemnify and hold the City
of Schuyler harmless from all liability, from any accidents or damages arising
from negligence or unskillfulness in doing or protecting his or her work while
performing work authorized by a permit or work requiring a permit or
registration, and that he or she will also restore the street, sidewalk,
pavement or other public property or right-of-way and to repair and fill all
other public property or right-of-way in as good a condition as he or she found
them, and to indemnify and hold the city harmless from damages suffered by his
or her failure to do so, and keep and maintain them in good repair in
accordance with engineering standards and specifications of the city, for a
period of one year thereafter, and that he or she will pay all fines imposed
upon him or her for the violation of any rule or regulation adopted by the city
in force during the term of his or her registration, and that he or she will
pay all fees set forth in this chapter.
(1972 Code, § 10-403) (Ord. 2021-09, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 113.004 REGISTRATION OF FIRM.
   Any firm may be registered hereunder as a master plumber in the name of the
firm, provided that the firm shall have a master plumber who is duly registered
as provided in this chapter. The master plumber must be a bona fide officer of
the firm or an employee who is regularly employed by the firm and is actually
engaged in the planning, superintending, and practical installation of plumbing
and drainage. The master plumber listed and registered by the firm shall be in
actual charge of and responsible for the installation, removal, or repair of
any plumbing or drainage work done by the firm. Before the firm shall be
registered as a master plumber, there shall be filed with the Chairperson of
the Examining Board a certificate from the Examining Board showing the fitness
and competency of the individual or individuals who are qualified as master
plumbers and who shall be in charge of the firm’s plumbing and drainage laying
activities. One individual must also qualify as master plumber to enable the
firm to hold a master plumber’s license and, in case the individual withdraws
from or ceases to be connected with the firm, the Examining Board shall
forthwith revoke the registration of the firm.
(Neb. RS 18-1907) (1972 Code, § 10-404)
§ 113.005 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   All registrations shall expire on the thirty-first day of December of the
year in which they are issued, and shall not be assignable. Certificates of
registration, at the time of their expiration, may be renewed upon the
recommendation of the Examining Board, without an examination, upon payment of
the required registration fee.
(Neb. RS 18-1908) (1972 Code, § 10-405)
§ 113.006 NONRESIDENT RE-APPLICATION.
   Should a nonresident licensee re-apply for a job license within a period of
one year, the re-examination of the applicant may be waived subject to the
approval of the Examining Board and upon payment of the registration fees.
(1972 Code, § 10-406)
§ 113.007 LAPSED REGISTRATIONS.
   Any person registered under the provisions of this chapter as a master
plumber or journeyman plumber, who does not renew his or her certificate of
registration for a period of 15 months after the expiration of same, shall pay
the examination fee required by this chapter for a master plumber or journeyman
plumber, and shall submit himself or herself to an examination by the Examining
Board before the person can be again registered hereunder.
(Neb. RS 18-1908) (1972 Code, § 10-407)
§ 113.008 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   The Governing Body, by a majority vote, shall have power to revoke any
master plumber’s or journeyman plumber’s certificate of registration, upon the
recommendation of the Examining Board, if the same was obtained through error
or fraud, or if the recipient thereof is shown to be grossly incompetent, or
has a second time willfully violated any of the provisions of the municipal
plumbing code. If a certificate of registration is revoked, the holder of the
same shall not apply for registration for one year after the revocation.
(Neb. RS 18-1909) (1972 Code, § 10-408)
§ 113.009 UNLAWFUL TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATE.
   No registered plumber shall allow his or her name to be used by another
person, directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit for the installation of any
work, and if any registered plumber violates this provision, the Governing Body
shall forthwith revoke the certificate of registration issued to the plumber.
In addition to having his or her certificate of registration revoked, the
master plumber may be prosecuted under the violation section of the municipal
plumbing code.
(1972 Code, § 10-409) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.010 FEES.
   The Municipal Clerk shall collect all registration and renewal fees as
occupation taxes and shall credit the same to the Municipal Sewer and Water
Funds equally. The Governing Body shall have the right to classify plumbers for
the purpose of setting registration and renewal fees in the categories as they
may in their discretion set. The categories are hereby declared to be
reasonable and nondiscriminatory. The actual amounts of the registration and
renewal fees shall be found in
Chapter 114 and shall also be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Neb. RS 18-1911) (1972 Code, § 10-410)
§ 113.011 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this title relating to plumbers shall not apply to any
public utility company or companies serving the municipality and its
inhabitants under a franchise agreement with the municipality, or its agents
and employees, and shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction upon
any franchises heretofore granted by the municipality.
(Neb. RS 18-1910) (1972 Code, § 10-411)
GAS FITTERS
§ 113.025 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person or firm shall hereafter engage in the business of inspecting,
cleaning, repairing, alteration, sale, or installation of natural gas piping
systems and appliances until he or she shall have registered as a gas fitter as
hereinafter provided. Application for registration shall be made in writing at
the office of the Utilities Superintendent showing the name and residence of
the applicant, the business location of the applicant, and any other
information as may be required.
(1972 Code, § 10-412) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.026 EXAMINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before the applicant shall be registered as a gas fitter, he or she
shall submit to an examination to determine his or her fitness and competency
to engage in the business of a gas fitter, which examination shall be given by
the Examining Board as hereinafter provided. Upon the payment of the required
registration fee, the applicant, after having by the examination shown himself
or herself to the satisfaction of the Examining Board to be fit, competent, and
qualified to engage in the business of a gas fitter and having gained final
approval from the Board, shall be registered and given a certificate of
registration signed by the Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. Any
applicant who fails to pass the required examination shall not be eligible to
again take the examination until six months have elapsed.
   (B)   The examination shall consist of two parts:
      (1)   Written examination, which shall count as 50%; and
      (2)   Personal interview and past experience, which shall count as 50%.
   (C)   The examination shall be passed to the satisfaction of the Examining
Board. A grade of 75% shall be considered as passing. The examination fee for a
gas fitter shall be set by resolution of the Governing Body and shall be paid
to the Utilities Superintendent upon application for a license.
(1972 Code, § 10-413)
§ 113.027 BOND.
   Each registered gas fitter, as a condition to the issuance of each
certificate, shall obtain and file with the Municipal Clerk a personal surety
bond, in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body and on file at the
office of the Clerk, signed by one or more sufficient sureties, or a corporate
surety doing business in the municipality to be approved by the Governing Body
conditioned that the licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless the
municipality from all accidents, damage, liability, claims, judgments, costs,
or expenses caused by the willful or negligent conduct of the gas fitter.
During the period of the license, the applicant for a license will be governed
by the rules and requirements herein provided, or that may hereafter be
prescribed and adopted by the municipality during the period of his or her
license, with reference to natural gas work, to the satisfaction of the
municipality. The obligee of the bond shall be the City of Schuyler, Nebraska,
and action may be maintained thereon by anyone injured by a breach of its
condition. All bonds tendered by gas fitters shall be approved in writing as to
form and substance by the Municipal Attorney. In addition to the filing of the
aforesaid bond, each registered gas fitter shall obtain and file a certificate
thereof with the Municipal Clerk, a general, public liability insurance policy
for property damage, and bodily injury in policy limits set by resolution of
the Governing Body and on file at the office of the Clerk. Action may be
maintained thereon by anyone injured by a breach of the conditions of the bond
or the covenants contained in the required endorsement on the policy of
insurance for a period of one year after the completion of any gas fitting
work.
(1972 Code, § 10-414)
§ 113.028 REGISTRATION OF FIRM.
   Any firm may be registered hereunder as a gas fitter in the name of the
firm, provided that the firm shall have a gas fitter who is duly registered as
provided in this chapter. The gas fitter in the firm must be a bona fide
officer of the firm or an employee who is regularly employed by the firm and is
actually engaged in the planning, superintending, and practical installation of
gas piping and appliances. The gas fitter registered by the firm shall be in
actual charge of and responsible for the installation, removal, or repair of
any gas piping or appliance work done by the firm. Before the firm shall be
registered as a gas fitter there shall be filed with the Chairperson of the
Examining Board a certificate from the Examining Board of Gas Mechanics and
Fitters showing the fitness and competency of the individual or individuals who
are qualified as gas fitters and who shall be in charge of the firm’s gas
piping and gas appliance installations. One individual must qualify as a gas
fitter to enable the firm to hold a gas fitter’s license and, in case the
individual or individuals withdraw from or cease to be connected with the firm,
the Examining Board shall forthwith revoke the registration of the firm. A
registered firm may employ nonregistered personnel in its natural gas
activities, without obtaining registration and license for each employee;
provided, however, that the work of the non-registered employees is at all
times under the jurisdiction, authority, and control of the registered officer
or member thereof. Any firm not maintaining an established place of business
within the municipality shall be required to obtain registration and licensing
of all employees who may be engaged in the inspection, cleaning, repair,
alteration, sale, or installation of natural gas piping systems and appliances.
(1972 Code, § 10-415)
§ 113.029 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   All registrations shall expire on the thirty-first day of December of the
year in which they are issued and shall be not assignable. Certificate of
registration, at the time of their expiration, may be renewed upon the
recommendation of the Examining Board without an examination, upon the payment
of the required registration fee.
(1972 Code, § 10-416)
§ 113.030 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   The Governing Body shall have the power to revoke any gas fitter’s
certificate of registration if the same was obtained through error or fraud, or
if the registrant is shown to be grossly incompetent, or has on two or more
occasions willfully violated any of the provisions of the municipality
constituting its building code, gas code, or any provisions of this chapter. No
person or firm shall apply for registration for one year after revocation.
(1972 Code, § 10-417)
§ 113.031 LAPSED REGISTRATIONS.
   Any person registered under the provisions of this chapter, as a natural gas
mechanic and fitter, who does not renew his or her certificate of registration
for a period of six months after the expiration of the same, shall pay the
examination fee required by this chapter and shall submit to another
examination.
(1972 Code, § 10-418)
§ 113.032 UNLAWFUL TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATE.
   No registered gas fitter shall allow his or her name to be used by another
person, directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit for the installation of any
work, and if any registered gas fitter violates this provision, the Examining
Board shall forthwith revoke the certificate of registration issued to the gas
fitter, and in addition to the revocation of the certificate of registration,
the gas fitter shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1972 Code, § 10-419) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.033 NONRESIDENT REGISTRATION.
   Nonresident applicants, upon their satisfying the Examining Board of their
competence, shall be granted a One Job License. Should the nonresident licensee
reapply for a One Job License within a period of one year, a re-examination of
the applicant may be waived by the Examining Board on the payment of the
registration fee. All nonresident licensees obtaining a One Job Certificate
shall file the same bond and liability insurance provided for resident gas
fitters. As a condition to the issuance of a nonresident license, the licensee
at the time of issuance must execute and file with the Municipal Clerk a
designation of resident agent and power of attorney appointing the Municipal
Clerk agent of the licensee to receive and accept service of summons within the
municipality on all litigation that may arise from or as the result of the work
of the nonresident licensee.
(1972 Code, § 10-420)
§ 113.034 FEES.
   The Municipal Clerk shall collect all registration and renewal fees as
occupation taxes. The Governing Body shall have the right to classify gas
fitters for the purpose of setting registration and renewal fees in the
categories as they may in their discretion set. The categories are hereby
declared to be reasonable and nondiscriminatory. The actual amounts of the
registration and renewal fees shall be found in Chapter 114 and shall also be
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1972 Code, § 10-421)
§ 113.035 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this title relating to gas fitters shall not apply to any
public utility company or companies serving the municipality and its
inhabitants under a franchise agreement with the municipality, or its agents
and employees, and shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction upon
any franchises heretofore granted by the municipality.
(1972 Code, § 10-422)
ELECTRICIANS
§ 113.050 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall install any electric apparatus within the corporate limits
without first having obtained a license to do so as hereinafter provided. The
Electrical Inspector shall recommend and the Examining Board shall issue
licenses to those persons who have been issued a valid and unexpired
electrician’s license by the State of Nebraska; provided, the persons shall
have complied with the other terms and conditions precedent to the issuance of
licenses as required in this chapter. In the event that the applicant holds a
license issued by the State of Nebraska, the license required herein shall be
in the form of an occupation tax certificate. Application for a license shall
be made to the Utilities Superintendent in writing showing the name and
residence of the applicant, the business location of the applicant, and any
other information as may be required.
(1972 Code, § 10-423) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.051 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSE.
   Master electrician is hereby defined to be any person skilled in the
planning, superintending, and practical installation of electrical equipment
and who is familiar with the ordinances and regulations governing the same, and
who is competent to install, repair, or alter electrical equipment, with the
full responsibility of supervision, whether doing the work by himself or
herself or employing journeyman electricians and apprentices to assist him or
her. It shall further apply to any person duly licensed as such by the State of
Nebraska.
(1972 Code, § 10-424)
Statutory reference:
   State Electrical Act, see Neb. RS 81-2101 et seq.
§ 113.052 EXAMINATION.
   (A)   In the event that the applicant is not a holder of a valid and
unexpired license issued by the State of Nebraska, the applicant shall submit
to an examination to determine his or her fitness and competency for executing
the work covered by the license for which application is made, which
examination shall be given by the Examining Board for Electricians. Upon
payment of the required fees, the applicant shall receive the license, after
having by the examination shown himself or herself to the satisfaction of the
Examining Board to be fit, competent, and qualified to receive the license. Any
person who fails to pass the required examination shall not be eligible to take
the examination again until six months have elapsed.
   (B)   The examination shall consist of two parts:
      (1)   Written examination, which shall count as 50%; and
      (2)   Personal interview and past experience, which shall count as 50%.
   (C)   The examination shall be passed to the satisfaction of the Examining
Board. A grade of 75% shall be considered as passing. An examination fee set by
resolution of the Governing Body shall be paid to the Utilities Superintendent
upon application for a license.
(1972 Code, § 10-425)
§ 113.053 ELECTRICIAN CONTRACTOR'S CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   Before the issuance of a registration as an electrician contractor, such
person shall furnish and maintain during all times that the electrician
contractor registration is in effect, bodily injury and property damage
liability insurance coverage with limits of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence.
The registrant shall furnish the City Clerk with a certificate of such
insurance coverage, which shall note that the insurance coverage shall not be
terminated except upon 30 days' written notice to the city. The policy of
insurance required by this section shall be purchased at the expense of the
registrant, shall be in effect for at least one year from the date of
registration, and shall provide coverage of products, hazards and completed
operations. Cancellation of the policy shall automatically suspend the
registration until a substitute policy has been obtained, and a certificate of
that fact filed in the office of the City Clerk. Such insurance will indemnify
and hold the City of Schuyler harmless from all liability, from any accidents
or damages arising from negligence or unskillfulness in doing or protecting his
or her work while performing work authorized by a permit or work requiring a
permit or registration, and that he or she will also restore the street,
sidewalk, pavement or other public property or right-of-way and to repair and
fill all other public property or right-of-way in as good a condition as he or
she found them, and to indemnify and hold the city harmless from damages
suffered by his or her failure to do so, and keep and maintain them in good
repair in accordance with engineering standards and specifications of the city,
for a period of one year thereafter, and that he or she will pay all fines
imposed upon him or her for the violation of any rule or regulation adopted by
the city in force during the term of his or her registration, and that he or
she will pay all fees set forth in this chapter.
(1972 Code, § 10-426) (Ord. 2021-09, passed 11-2-2021)
§ 113.054 REGISTRATION OF FIRM.
   All firms shall have a master electrician who has met the requirements of
the Examining Board and has thereby shown himself or herself qualified to
engage in the business of a master electrician, as a bona fide officer or
member of the firm. Before the firm shall be registered in its firm name, as a
master electrician, there shall be filed with the Examining Board a certificate
from the Examining Board showing the fitness and competency of the officer or
member of the firm to engage in the business of master electrician; provided,
that if, after a certificate of registration is issued to the firm, the master
electrician as an officer of the firm shall withdraw therefrom and cease to be
connected therewith, then the Examining Board shall forthwith revoke the
certificate of registration of the firm.
(1972 Code, § 10-427)
§ 113.055 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Registration certificates shall expire on the thirty-first day of December
of the year in which they are issued, and shall not be assignable. Certificates
of registration, at the time of their expiration, may be renewed upon
recommendation of the Examining Board, without an examination, upon payment of
the required registration fee. Any person registered as a master electrician
who does not renew his or her certificate of registration for a period of 15
months after the expiration of same, shall pay any registration fee required by
this title for a master electrician, and shall again prove his or her
qualification to the Examining Board before the person can be again registered
hereunder.
(1972 Code, § 10-428)
§ 113.056 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   The Examining Board by a majority vote shall have power to revoke any master
electrician’s certificate of registration, if the same was obtained through
error or fraud, or if the recipient thereof is shown to be grossly incompetent,
or has a second time willfully violated any of the provisions of the electrical
code. If a certificate of registration is revoked, the holder of the same shall
not apply for registration for one year after the revocation.
(1972 Code, § 10-429)
§ 113.057 UNLAWFUL USE.
   No registered electrician shall allow his or her name to be used by another
person, directly or indirectly, to obtain a permit for the installation of any
work, and if any registered electrician violates this provision, the Examining
Board shall forthwith revoke the certificate of registration issued to the
electrician. In addition to having his or her certificate of registration
revoked, the master electrician may be prosecuted under the penalty section of
this chapter.
(1972 Code, § 10-430) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.058 ELECTRICIAN; FEES.
   The Municipal Clerk shall collect all registration and renewal fees as
occupation taxes and shall credit the same to the Municipal Electric Fund. The
Governing Body shall have the right to classify electricians for the purpose of
setting registration and renewal fees in the categories as they may in their
discretion set. The categories are hereby declared to be reasonable and
nondiscriminatory. The actual amounts of the registration and renewal fees
shall be found in
Chapter 114 and shall also be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(1972 Code, § 10-431)
§ 113.059 NONRESIDENTS.
   Nonresident applicants, upon satisfying the requirements prescribed for
resident electricians, shall be granted a One Job License. Should the
nonresident reapply for a One Job License within a period of one year, the
reexamination of the applicant may be waived subject to the approval of the
Examining Board and upon payment of the registration fees.
(1972 Code, § 10-432)
§ 113.060 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this title relating to electricians shall not apply to any
public utility company or companies serving the municipality and its
inhabitants under a franchise agreement with the municipality, or its agents
and employees, and shall not be construed as a limitation or restriction upon
any franchises heretofore granted by the municipality.
(1972 Code, § 10-433)
BICYCLE DEALERS
§ 113.075 REQUIRED RECORDS.
   All persons, firms, or corporations engaged in the business of buying and
selling bicycles in the municipality are hereby required to keep a record of
all bicycles sold or purchased by them. The records shall be open for
inspection at any reasonable time by the Municipal Police Department of the
municipality. The buyers or sellers shall make a report when requested showing
the sales and transfers. The records shall describe the bicycles so purchased
and the person to whom the sale or transfer was made; provided, nothing herein
shall be construed to apply to the occasional sale of a bicycle where neither
party is in the business of purchasing or selling bicycles on a regular basis.
(1972 Code, § 10-434)
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 113.090 MUNICIPAL CONTRACT.
   The Governing Body may, in their discretion, by resolution, provide for the
letting of a contract for the collection of garbage and other waste materials
on a city-wide basis. In that event, bids for the service shall be invited
under the specifications as the Board of Health shall recommend and the
Governing Body shall approve; provided, that no contract shall provide that the
cost or expense of any citywide collection shall be paid by the municipality.
(1972 Code, § 10-435)
§ 113.091 CONVEYANCE.
   No person shall convey any garbage or waste materials through the streets,
alleys, or public places of the municipality except in some tight wagon box or
bed so made and loaded that none of its contents shall be spilled on or along
the public ways and property. No person shall convey any garbage or other waste
material in any wagon or truck unless the same be watertight, clean, and
disinfected with sufficient frequency so as not to cause offense to the
residents of the municipality. All the vehicles shall be enclosed. The
Governing Body may at any time by resolution provide that all the conveyances
be constructed with metal bodies or beds.
(1972 Code, § 10-436) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.092 FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Franchise granted. The franchise to be granted by the City of
Schuyler, Nebraska, pursuant to this subchapter shall grant to the grantee the
right, privilege, and franchise to collect and haul garbage, rubbish, and waste
along and over the streets, easements and alleys, public ways, and public
places not laid out or dedicated and all the extensions thereto and additions
thereto in the City of Schuyler. Grantee is further granted the right and
privilege to operate and maintain a business enterprise within the City of
Schuyler, Nebraska, for the purpose of refuse hauling and to provide garbage,
rubbish, waste, and refuse disposal for the residents and inhabitants of the
City of Schuyler.
   (B)   Franchise may be exclusive or nonexclusive; duration of grant.
      (1)   The franchise granted under the terms of this section may be either
exclusive or nonexclusive as in the opinion of the City Council will serve the
public interest. If the franchise granted is nonexclusive, the term of the
grant shall be for a period not to exceed ten years. If the franchise granted
is exclusive, the term of the franchise granted shall not be for a period of
time exceeding five years. Any franchise may be renewed for additional terms as
in the opinion of the City Council will serve the public interest, but each
period of renewal shall not exceed the time limitations provided for the
initial grant as set forth herein.
      (2)   Any franchise granted shall be subject to the conditions and
restrictions as hereinafter provided and further provided that the Mayor and
City Council shall have the right to review the franchise periodically at the
time as the Mayor and City Council may from time to time elect to do so and as
provided herein.
   (C)   Franchise rights subject to police powers.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the City of Schuyler is responsible for the sale and sanitary
disposal of solid waste generated within the corporate limits of the city. The
franchise granted herein shall obligate the franchisee to conduct its business
consistent with the Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, and all
other state and federal laws, rules, and regulations, dealing with the disposal
of solid waste. The franchisee shall further act in a manner consistent with
any contracts entered into by the city dealing with the disposal of solid
waste. Any agreement entered into between the city and a franchisee shall be
subject to alteration at any time so that the terms contained therein are
consistent with the Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, along with
any other state and federal rules and regulations, as presently exist, or as
may hereinafter be adopted or amended.
      (2)   In accepting a franchise, the franchisee acknowledges that it will
act consistent with all applicable state and federal rules and regulations
dealing with solid waste, including the Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, and further the franchisee will indemnify the city for any
liability that may incur to the city by reason of the franchisee’s failure to
act in accordance with applicable state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
      (3)   In accepting any franchise granted herein, the grantee acknowledges
that all rights hereunder are subject to the police power of the city to adopt
and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the
public, and the grantee agrees to comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to the powers.
   (D)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or
entity to use the streets, easements, alleys, public ways, and public places
for the purpose of collecting and/or hauling garbage, waste, rubbish, or refuse
for another when any compensation is to be received by the person, business, or
entity unless the person, business, or entity has first applied for and
received a franchise under the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   Rates. Prior to the grant of any franchise under the terms of this
chapter, the grantee shall file with the city a schedule of rates to be charged
to customers. The rates shall be approved by the City Council as part of the
grant of franchise. Grantee shall be authorized and allowed to increase the
rate structure by not more than an average annual 5% to cover normal increases
in operating costs during the term of this franchise, without City Council
approval. Any increases above 5% shall be approved by the City Council in
advance of the rate adjustment. In approving rates, the city shall specifically
take into consideration fees charged by solid waste disposal facilities
approved by the city.
   (F)   Reevaluation. Reevaluation meeting with the grantee may be held at any
time during the term of the franchise. All the reevaluation meetings shall be
open to the public and grantee shall receive not less than ten-days’ notice of
any such meeting. At any such meeting, the franchise operation may be
discussed, including service rate structures, services provided, customer
complaints, removal or hauling of any unusual or uncommon refuse, and any other
topics as may be decided upon by the City Council and notice of which are given
to the grantee as part of the notice of any meeting.
   (G)   Cancellation and termination.
      (1)   The City Council may cancel the franchise conferred by this chapter
at any time prior to its expiration date upon a finding that the franchisee
has:
         (a)   Materially breached the terms and conditions of this franchise
subchapter or any franchise agreement, whether by act or omission; or
         (b)   Failed to provide customers and users with adequate service in
the best interest of the public convenience and welfare.
      (2)   No termination shall take place unless the franchisee has been
given 30-days’ notice of the proposed cancellation, and a public hearing for
that purpose has been afforded the franchisee before the City Council. Notice
of the public hearing shall be given to the public at least seven days prior to
the public hearing.
      (3)   A material breach shall include, but not be limited to, failure of
the franchisee to act in compliance with all applicable state and federal
statutes, rules, and regulations dealing with the disposal of solid waste,
including the Nebraska Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, and the failure
of the franchisee to abide by the terms of the franchise agreement entered into
between the franchisee and the city.
   (H)   Transfers and assignments. The grantee operating under this chapter
shall not be permitted to sell, lease, sublease, transfer, or otherwise change
control of the franchise herein granted without prior written consent of the
City of Schuyler, Nebraska; no sale or transfer thereof shall be effective
until the vendee, assignee, or lessee files in the office of the City Clerk an
instrument duly executed reciting the facts of the sale, assignment, or lease
accepting terms of the franchise and agreeing to perform all of the conditions
thereof.
   (I)   Customer complaints. Grantee shall keep a record or log of any and all
complaints from customers which shall include the name, address, and phone
number of the customer and generally describing the complaint, which record
shall be generally available for examination by the Mayor upon request.
   (J)   Emergency powers. If the best interest of the health and welfare of
the citizens of the city should warrant it, the city shall have the power to
suspend any franchise granted under the terms of these provisions for a period
of up to 45 days. This suspension may take place without notice to the
franchisee, if in the opinion of the City Council an emergency situation should
exist. In lieu of suspending a franchise under the terms of these provisions,
the city may simply convert an exclusive franchise into a nonexclusive
franchise for a period not to exceed 45 days.
(1972 Code, § 10-437) (Ord. 838, passed 2-23-1994) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.093 OPERATION WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or entity to be engaged in
collecting or hauling garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse along or across any
street, easement, alley, public way, or public place within the City of
Schuyler, Nebraska, or the one-mile jurisdiction of the City of Schuyler,
Nebraska, outside its corporate limits without first having been granted a
franchise by the city under the terms of this chapter.
(1972 Code, § 10-437.01) (Ord. 838, passed 2-23-1994) Penalty, see §
113.999
RAILROAD COMPANIES
§ 113.120 SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition
the crossings and right-of-way in the municipality. If any such crossing shall
at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public
travel, the Governing Body may, by resolution, call upon the company to make
whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition.
Notice of the resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the company.
In the event that the railroad shall fail, or neglect to repair, and correct
the condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours
thereafter shall be deemed, and is hereby made, a separate and distinct offense
against the provisions herein.
(1972 Code, § 10-440) Penalty, see §
113.999
Statutory reference:
   Crossings; complaints, see Neb. RS 74-1336
   Railroads; regulations, see Neb. RS 16-212
§ 113.121 RAILROAD COMPANIES; LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating, and
maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the Governing Body shall
deem necessary at the expense of the company. The lights shall be turned on and
kept operating at all times between one hour after sunset in the evening and
one hour before sunrise in the morning following.
(1972 Code, § 10-441) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.122 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than five minutes.
(1972 Code, § 10-442) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.123 AUTOMATIC SIGNALS.
   When ordered by the Governing Body, approved automatic lights or signals
shall be installed at designated crossings. The wig-wag lights and bells shall
be kept in good working order at all hours of the day or night so that all
persons approaching the crossings, or either of them, will be warned of the
danger of approaching trains, engines, or cars on the tracks of the company.
Likewise, the Governing Body may order railroad companies to keep flagmen at
designated crossings.
(1972 Code, § 10-443) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.124 LIGHTED PLATFORMS.
   Railroad companies within the corporate limits of the municipality shall,
wholly at their own expense, construct and maintain on their depot platforms
electric light or lights at the height and of the candlepower ample to light
the platforms, as the Governing Body shall by resolution direct.
(1972 Code, § 10-444) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.125 SPEED; MAXIMUM.
   No railroad company, its employees, agents, or servants, shall operate a
railway engine, car, or train of cars within the corporate limits at a rate of
speed greater than 50 mph.
(1972 Code, § 10-445) (Ord. 547, passed 7-20-1976; Ord. 653, passed 3-3-1981)
Penalty, see §
113.999
BUILDING MOVING
§ 113.140 REGULATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm or corporation to
move into the corporate limits of the city from any point outside of said
corporate limits, or to move within the corporate limits of the city, any
building or structure without first having received a permit to do so from the
Mayor and Council.
(1972 Code, § 10-446) (Ord. 693, passed 7-6-1982; Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983;
Ord. 882, passed 7-15-1997) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.141 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A structure that is completely enclosed by a roof and by solid
exterior walls along whose outside faces can be traced an unbroken line for the
complete circumference of the structure, which is permanently affixed to a lot
or lots, and used or intended for the shelter, support, or enclosure of
persons, animals, or property of any kinds. The connection of two buildings by
means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway, carport, or other such open
structures, with or without a roof, shall not be deemed to make them one
building.
   BUILDING MOVER. Such person who engages in the business or in the act of
moving of buildings from one location to another.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.01) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997)
§ 113.142 PERMIT REQUIRED; OFF STREET PARKING AND GARAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before moving any house or building into, or within, the city, a
permit shall be obtained by the owner of the building to be moved from the
city. The owner of said building will make application in writing upon a form
furnished by the City Clerk which shall require the applicant to set forth the
following documentation:
      (1)   The description and location of the current building;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the lot to which the building
is to be moved and the period of time in which the building is to be moved;
      (3)   A plot plan showing the location of the building to be placed
within the new location including setbacks;
      (4)   The plot plan shall provide for hard surface off-street parking for
at least two vehicles and if the lot subdivision requires a garage for a
residence, the location and size of the garage as well as any other
requirements of this code for off-street parking and garages consistent with
building a new residence or other new building on the same lot for that
subdivision as is required for that zoning district;
      (5)   The application shall be accompanied by a photograph of the
building to moved;
      (6)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk an affidavit sworn to
by the applicant stating that he or she has made a search of the records of the
Office of the Register of Deeds of Colfax County, Nebraska, and that from said
record, the applicant has found the names of the record title owners of real
estate located within 300 feet of the proposed location upon which the building
to be moved is to be located. The names and addresses of each record title
owner shall be stated. In lieu of the applicant filing an affidavit stating
that he or she has made a search of such records, a real estate title search
signed by a registered abstracter indicating that he or she has made the search
would be acceptable.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the application, and payment of the necessary fees,
the Building Inspector will inspect the building to be moved and shall set
forth in general terms what items need to be repaired or improved with respect
to the building so that it will meet the provisions of the applicable city
building codes. Based on his or her inspection of the building and the plot
plan submitted, the Building Inspector shall make a recommendation to the City
Council either granting or denying the permit.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the application, payment of all fees, and the
recommendation of the Building Inspector, a public hearing shall be held before
the City Council on the issue of granting or denying said application. Notice
of said hearing shall be published one time in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city, which publication shall take place at least ten
days before the time scheduled for the hearing. In addition, at least seven
days prior to said scheduled hearing, the City Clerk shall send notices to all
property owners whose names and addresses have been furnished to the city as
being owners of property located within 300 feet of the proposed location. In
addition, at least ten days before the hearing, the City Clerk shall cause a
notice to be posted by the applicant in a conspicuous place on the property to
which the building is to be moved. Such notice shall be not less than 18 inches
in height and 24 inches in width, with black letters of not less one and one-
half inches in height on a yellow or white background. Such posted notice shall
be so placed upon the premises that it is easily visible from the streets
adjacent to the property. It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove, mutilate,
destroy, or change such posted notice prior to the hearing.
   (D)   All costs connected with the search of the records of the Register of
Deeds of Colfax County, Nebraska for names and addresses of record title owners
shall be the responsibility of the applicant, and shall be in addition to other
fees and expenses set forth herein.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.02) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997; Ord. 2018-10, passed 7-3-2018)
§ 113.143 COMPLIANCE.
   In the event the Council issues a permit to move said building, the
applicant shall comply with all orders given to him by the Building Inspector
and the Street Commissioner relative to the manner in which the building is to
be moved on a portion of a street or other public ground. Failure to comply
with the lawful orders of either the Building Inspector or Street Commissioner
shall terminate the moving permit immediately.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.03) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997)
§ 113.144 BOND.
   The bond to be filed by the applicant shall be in the sum of $2,500, with
such sureties as the Mayor and Council may require and approve, conditioned for
the payment of any damages sustained by the city or anyone else resulting from
the moving of any building or parts thereof over and across any street within
the city. The bond may be sued upon by any person or the city for recovery of
any damages resulting from the moving of any building or part thereof under
supervision of the principal or principals of the bond, or their agents or
employees. In the moving of a building of less than 600 square feet, the
Building Inspector may, in lieu of bond, require the building mover to post a
certified check in the amount deemed necessary to guarantee performance, and to
pay for any damage or expense resulting from the moving of any building or part
thereof, and sufficient to render the city being saved from any liability or
expense. Said amount less the amount as may be deducted for expense or damage
to the city shall be returned to the building mover within 30 days from the
date of completion of the project.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.04) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997)
§ 113.145 INTERFERING WITH POLES OR WIRES.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for the building mover in moving a building
to interfere with any telephone, telegraph or electric light poles or wires the
company owning, using or operating such poles or wires, shall, upon such notice
as is provided in their respective franchises, or if no provision for notice is
made therein, then upon 48 hours notice, be present and assist, or, if
necessary, move such poles and wires at their own expense, unless it is
otherwise provided in their franchise. The notice herein provided for shall be
given the company by the building mover.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.05) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997)
§ 113.146 CLEANING PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any building mover to move any building or
structure in such a manner that there shall remain holes or depressions
dangerous to life and limb, nor to allow debris, or rubbish to remain after the
moving of a building or structure. When a building has been moved from a lot
for the purpose of erecting thereon another building or structure, the Building
Inspector at his discretion may permit the owner of such property to maintain
for a period not to exceed three months any remaining hole or depression;
provided however, that such hole or depression is maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition and kept free of all rubbish and debris of any nature, and
that such hole or depression is surrounded and protected by strong and suitable
barricades or fencing not less than three and one-half feet in height and
maintained in a sound and proper condition. The property owner shall properly
fill such holes and depressions at the termination of such three-month period
unless building operations have commenced thereon.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.06) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.147 NEWLY CONSTRUCTED BUILDING.
   All newly constructed buildings which are partially assembled away from the
site of erection and are moved to the site of erection are not considered to be
moving buildings under the terms of the Code, provided that the assembled
portions do not exceed 12 feet in width and 25 feet in height. The route of
travel in moving of partially constructed buildings to the site of erection
must be approved by the City Street Commissioner.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.07) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997)
§ 113.148 FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each application for a moving permit shall be accompanied by a fee of
$3,000.
   (B)   Upon the denial of the application, or withdrawal of the application
by the applicant, the City Clerk shall refund to the applicant $2,850.
   (C)   If within one year of the Council's approval of the application, the
owner or applicant does everything required to bring the building to be moved
into compliance with all applicable City Code provisions, and the Building
Inspector issues a certificate of occupancy, then in such case the City Clerk
is authorized to refund to the applicant $2,600 of the fee.
   (D)   The City Council is authorized to extend the one-year period in which
to complete the moving process, and bringing the property into compliance, if
after a hearing held before the expiration of the one-year period, the owner or
applicant shows to the City Council that there was substantial good cause why
the work could not be completed within the one-year period. The Council may
extend the period only one time, and in no case may the extension be for a
period longer than six months.
(1972 Code, § 10-446.08) (Ord. 716A, passed 10-18-1983; Ord. 882, passed 7-15-
1997)
§ 113.149 HEARING.
   Upon the filing of application and upon payment of all applicable fees, the
City Clerk shall fix that matter for hearing before the City Council at a date
of not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days. Notices shall be given in the
manner set forth in these provisions. After hearing, the Mayor and Council may
approve or deny the application. In considering whether to approve or deny the
application, the Mayor and Council may consider the following:
   (A)   The compatibility of the building to be moved to the immediate
neighborhood. In determining the compatibility, the Mayor and Council may
consider the age, style, and height, of the building to be moved, as it relates
to the immediate neighborhood in which it is to be located.
   (B)   The ability of the applicant or owner to bring the building to be
moved into compliance with all applicable City Code provisions within the time
frame set forth herein. In this respect, the Council may consider the record of
the applicant or owner in connection with prior building movings; the prior
record of the owner or applicant with respect to compliance with City Code
building provisions; along with the prior record of applicant or owner
connected with the management, care, and improvement of other property owned or
managed by the applicant or owner.
   (C)   Whether the building to be moved will be used for a use which the lot
it is to be moved on is currently zoned for. It shall be the policy of the city
not to rezone any lot upon which a building is moved onto for at least one year
after the issuance of a permit for moving.
(Ord. 882, passed 7-15-1997)
§ 113.150 SMALL BUILDINGS.
   In the event that the building to be moved is a structure of less than 600
square feet and the primary purpose of said building is to provide storage for
the property, the Council may in its discretion waive the notice provisions set
forth herein, as well as waive the requirement for a public hearing, and grant
or deny the application without said notice or hearing. In the event the
Council should waive these requirements, the fee required from the applicant or
owner shall be $150.
(Ord. 882, passed 7-15-1997)
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in
the particular section for which the person stands convicted of violating, the
penalty for that violation shall be in any amount not to exceed $500 and/or
shall be imprisoned for any length of time not to exceed three months, in the
discretion of the court. Nothing herein shall prevent prosecution under state
law where the possible penalty, either fine or imprisonment, exceeds the limits
specified herein.
(1972 Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 114: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
114.01   Amounts
   
114.02   Fire insurance companies
   
114.03   Collection date
   
114.04   Certificates
   
114.05   Failure to pay
   
114.06   Alcoholic liquors
   
114.07   Gas companies
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax to the city is hereby
levied on the following businesses:
   (A)   Alcoholic liquors:
      (1)   Manufacturer of alcohol and spirits - $1,000;
      (2)   Manufacturer of beer - $100, 200, 350, 500, 650, 700, 800, as
governed by Nebraska Liquor Commission for license class;
      (3)   Manufacturer of wine - $250;
      (4)   Alcoholic liquor wholesale - $750;
      (5)   Beer wholesale - $500;
      (6)   Class A retailer of beer only, for consumption on the premise -
$100;
      (7)   Class B retailer of beer only, for consumption off the premise
(sale in original package only) - $100;
      (8)   Class D retailer of beer, wine and distilled spirits, off sale only
- $200;
      (9)   Class C retailer of beer, wine, distilled spirits, for consumption
on the premise and off premise (sales by the drink or in the original package)
- $300;
      (10)   Class C retailer of beer, wine, distilled spirits, for consumption
on the premise and off premise (sales by the drink or in the original package)
- Non-Profits - $150;
      (11)   Non-beverage user:
         (a)   Class 1 - $5;
         (b)   Class 2 - $25;
         (c)   Class 3 - $50;
         (d)   Class 4 - $100;
         (e)   Class 5 - $250;
      (12)   Liquor licenses Class I beer - wine, distilled spirits, on sale
only - $250;
   (B)   Billiard hall or pool hall (per year) - $10;
   (C)   Bowling alley (per year) - $10;
   (D)   Circus/carnival (per day) - $200;
   (E)   Electricians:
      (1)   Master electrician’s registration fee - $50;
      (2)   Master electrician’s annual renewal fee - $15;
      (3)   Journeyman electrician’s registration fee - $50;
      (4)   Journeyman electrician’s annual renewal fee - $15.
   (F)   Fire insurance companies (per year) - $5;
   (G)   Gas fitters:
      (1)   Natural gas mechanic and fitter registration fee - $50; and
      (2)   Natural gas mechanic and fitter annual renewal fee - $15.
   (H)   Natural gas companies. There is hereby levied an occupation tax on
every natural gas company, and every other person, firm, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company, or association as well as their
successors and assigns, owning, operating, controlling, leasing or managing any
natural gas plant or natural gas system, generating, manufacturing, selling or
distributing or transporting natural gas (hereinafter referred to as "gas
companies"), within the city. Gas companies shall pay to the Clerk/Treasurer an
amount equal to 5% of its gross receipts derived by the gas companies from
sale, distribution, or transportation of natural gas delivered within the
corporate city limits of the city, excluding sales to city-owned facilities
only. GROSS RECEIPTS as used herein shall mean revenues received from the sale,
distribution or transportation of natural gas, after adjustment for the net
write-off of uncollectible accounts and corrections of bills theretofore
rendered.
   (I)   Game or music machines (per year) - $35;
   (J)   Vendors (per day) -$125;
   (K)   Motion picture, showing under canvas or in open air (first day) - $10;
(each additional day) - $5;
   (L)   Photographs, or enlargements of photographs, soliciting orders for, or
delivering or collecting for finished work (per day) - $10; this not to include
commercial travelers selling or soliciting photographers or dealers in
photographic supplies (per year) - $25;
   (M)   Plumbers:
      (1)   Master plumber’s registration fee - $50;
      (2)   Master plumber’s annual renewal fee - $15;
      (3)   Journeyman plumber’s registration fee - $50;
      (4)   Journeyman plumber’s annual renewal fee - $15.
   (N)   Skating rinks, portable or otherwise:
      (1)   First day - $3;
      (2)   Each additional day - $1; and
      (3)   Three months or less - $10.
   (O)   Telecommunication service businesses. Commencing October 1, 2011,
there is hereby levied upon every person, firm, partnership, corporation, or
association engaged in the business of offering or providing telecommunication
services to the public for hire in the city, an occupation tax as follows:
      (1)   5% on the gross receipts resulting from any toll services and
charges on basis local exchange services; inter-exchange services; mobile
services; and other telecommunication services as follows:
         (a)   Basic local exchange services shall include the access and
transmission of two-way switched communications within the city, including
local telephone and telecommunication services;
         (b)   Inter-exchange services shall mean the access and transmission
of communications between two or more local exchange areas, provided that such
inter-exchange service either:
            1.   Originates from an end user within the city; or
            2.   Terminates with an end user within the city, and is charged to
a service address within the city regardless of where the charges are actually
paid;
         (c)   Mobile services shall include any radio or similar communication
services provided pursuant to license or authority granted by the Federal
Communications Commission, charged to a service address within the city
regardless of where the charges are actually paid, including cellular, radio
paging, and mobile radio services; and
         (d)   Any other similar telecommunication services involving any
electronic or electromagnetic transmission of messages originating and
terminating in the State of Nebraska and charged to a service address in the
city, regardless of where the charges are actually paid.
      (2)   Gross receipts shall not include any toll services and charges as
follows:
         (a)   For interstate telecommunications between persons in this city
and persons outside of this state;
         (b)   For local carrier access charges, transmission facilities and
switching services provided to telecommunications companies;
         (c)   From accounts charged to the United States government or any of
its departments, or the State of Nebraska, or any of its agencies, subdivisions
or departments.
      (3)   No part or portion of the tax provided for in this section shall be
levied upon or assessed against or taken from any such gross receipts so
excepted from the provisions hereof.
   (P)   Vendors:
      (1)   Fruits, vegetables, or other commodities, retail dealers in,
selling or offering for sale any of the commodities from railroad car, truck,
automobile, or other vehicle, or otherwise (per day) - $35; and
      (2)   Per year - $125.
   (Q)   Fireworks vendors as described in §
130.52 - $325.
   (R)   Garbage/refuse haulers. There is hereby levied an occupation tax of 3%
of gross receipts on the business of garbage/refuse haulers providing hauling
or collecting of refuse from premises located within the corporate limits of
the city, including, but not limited to residential, commercial and industrial,
and to include all premises with the city limits within the city, excluding the
hauling or collecting of refuse from city-owned facilities, only. Any garbage/
refuse hauler engaging in the business hauling or collecting refuse within the
corporate limits of the city must first comply with the franchise requirements
under §
113.092. Said occupation tax shall be collected on a quarter-annual basis. Such
payment shall be made not more than 45 days following the close of the period
for which payment is due. Initial payments shall be prorated for the portion of
the period at the beginning of the term of this section. Each payment shall be
accompanied by a gross receipts statement supporting the payment. The statement
of gross receipts and any supporting documentation related thereto shall be
subject to audit by the Clerk/Treasurer or its designated agent. For purposes
of this section, REFUSE shall mean and include garbage, building rubbish,
demolition debris, putrescible waste, commercial waste, industrial waste, waste
papers and cardboards, animal, food or vegetable waste, and any other waste
matter or material.
   (S)   Electricity, water and sewer utilities. There is hereby levied an
occupation tax on the utilities rendered within the city limits of the city,
including electricity, water and sewer, which shall be in an amount equal to 5%
of the gross receipts for electricity, water and sewer derived by the
Department of Utilities from the sales of electricity, water and sewer
delivered within the corporate city limits of the city, excluding sales to
city-owned facilities. Said occupation tax shall be collected on a quarter/
annual basis and submitted to the Clerk/Treasurer not more than 45 days
following the close of the period for which payment is due.
(1972 Code, § 10-601) (Ord. 570, passed 6-7-1977; Ord. 2011-04, passed 7-19-
2011; Ord. 2015-10, passed 7-7-2105; Ord. 2015-13, passed 8-18-2015; Ord. 2024-
10, passed 7-16-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Occupational taxes, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.02 FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Volunteer Fire Department, all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
appropriated to the Special Occupation Tax Fund of the Volunteer Fire
Department of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 35-106) (1972 Code, § 10-602)
§ 114.03 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of May of
each year, except in the event that the tax is levied daily, and upon the
payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the Clerk
shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the tax,
and the amount paid; provided, occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor
licensees shall be due and payable on the first day of November. The revenue
collected shall then be immediately deposited into the General Fund by the
Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of
all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms, and receipts herein mentioned
shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each party in the
transaction.
(1972 Code, § 10-603)
Statutory reference:
   Occupational taxes, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.04 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person, and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible, while business is being conducted.
(1972 Code, § 10-604)
Statutory reference:
   Occupational taxes, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 114.05 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(1972 Code, § 10-605)
§ 114.06 ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS.
   (A)   The occupation tax shall commence on the first day of May of each year
and end on the thirtieth day of April, next succeeding. That the occupation
taxes as set forth above shall be assessed in the following manner:
 
10- to 12-month period 100% of tax
7- to 9-month period   75% of tax
4- to 6-month period   50% of tax
0- to 3-month period   25% of tax
 
   (B)   The tax levied and imposed by this section shall in no case exceed the
amount required to be paid for a license for the same period of time under the
provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. The amount of the occupation tax
shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk at the time the application for
license is made of within 24 hours after the application has been filed with
the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission. The Clerk shall hold the occupation tax
as a trust fund until the application is finally passed upon and if the
application is refused and license denied, then the amount thereof shall be
returned to the applicant. The Clerk shall account to and pay the occupation
tax to the Treasurer immediately after the license is issued and the Treasurer
shall credit the same to the General Fund. Upon the failure of any such
applicant to pay the occupation tax as herein provided, it shall be mandatory
upon the Governing Body to pass a resolution denying the application for a
license or requesting the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission to deny the
application and the resolution shall state the reason therefor and shall be
forwarded to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
(Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-160) (1972 Code, § 10-606)
§ 114.07 GAS COMPANIES.
   (A)   The occupation tax paid by gas companies pursuant to this chapter
shall be in lieu of, and gas companies shall be exempt from, all other fees,
charges, taxes or assessments which the city may impose for the privilege of
doing business within the city, including, without limitation, excise taxes,
franchise fees, licensing fees, or right-of-way permit fees, and in the event
the city imposes any such fee, charge, tax or assessment, the payment to be
made by gas companies in accordance with this chapter shall be reduced in an
amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax or assessment imposed upon the gas
companies.
   (B)   Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and personal
property within the city shall not be deemed to affect gas companies'
obligations herein.
   (C)   Gas companies shall report and pay any amount payable in accordance
with this chapter on an annual basis. Such payment shall be made no more than
30 days following the close of the period for which payment is due. Initial and
final payments shall be prorated for the portions of the periods at the
beginning and end of any franchise granted by the City of Schuyler, Nebraska,
to a gas company.
   (D)   Gas companies may collect the occupation tax from their customers,
commonly known as a pass through. If collected from a customer, gas companies
shall list the franchise fee collected as a separate item on bills for utility
service issued to their customers. If at any time the Nebraska Public Service
Commission or other authority having proper jurisdiction prohibits such
recovery from the customer, gas companies shall be obligated to pay the
occupation tax.
   (E)   Each occupation tax payment shall be accompanied by a statement of
gross receipts supporting the payment amount.
   (F)   The city shall have access to and the right to examine, during normal
business hours, such of a gas company’s books, receipts, files, records and
documents as is reasonably necessary to verify the accuracy of payments due
hereunder; provided, that the city shall not exercise such right more than
twice per calendar year. If it is determined that a mistake was made in the
payment of any occupation tax required herein, such mistake shall be corrected
promptly upon discovery such that any under-payment by a gas company shall be
paid within 30 days of recalculation of the amount due, and any over-payment by
a gas company shall be deducted from the next payment of such occupation tax
due by such gas company to the city; provided, that neither party shall have
the obligation to correct a mistake that is discovered more than one year after
the occurrence thereof.
(Ord. 2024-10, passed 7-16-2024)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in
the particular section for which the person stands convicted of violating, the
penalty for that violation shall be in any amount not to exceed $500 and/or
shall be imprisoned for any length of time not to exceed three months, in the
discretion of the court. Nothing herein shall prevent prosecution under state
law where the possible penalty, either fine or imprisonment, exceeds the limits
specified herein.
(1972 Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
115.01   Franchise granted and limitations
   
115.02   Duration of franchise grant
   
115.03   Franchise rights subject to police powers
   
115.04   Terms; definitions
   
115.05   Franchise required; duration; exclusivity
   
115.06   Re-evaluation
   
115.07   Cancellation and termination
   
115.08   Continuity of service mandatory
   
115.09   Transfers and assignments
   
115.10   Franchise area
   
115.11   Annexation
   
115.12   Standby power
   
115.13   Antenna switch for alternative use of off-air antennas
   
115.14   Technical standards and specifications
   
115.15   Tower construction
   
115.16   Tower; FAA regulations
   
115.17   Antenna structure
   
115.18   OSHA regulations
   
115.19   FCC regulations
   
115.20   City regulations
   
115.21   RF leakage
   
115.22   Two-way capability
   
115.23   Head end equipment
   
115.24   Microwave service prohibited
   
115.25   Local regulatory framework and regulations; remedies for breaches
   
115.26   Construction timetables
   
115.27   Foreclosure; receivership
   
115.28   Establishment of a regulatory entity
   
115.29   Procedure for any day-to-day regulation
   
115.30   Functions to be regulated
   
115.31   Subscriber complaint procedure
   
115.32   Employment requirements
   
115.33   Franchise fees
   
115.34   Rates
   
115.35   User classes and division
   
115.36   Advance charges and deposits
   
115.37   Installation and reconnection
   
115.38   Disconnection
   
115.39   Records and reports
   
115.40   Use of public property and conditions for use
   
115.41   Indemnity and insurance
   
115.42   Public hearing
   
115.43   Service to schools and city
   
115.44   Tampering or unauthorized connections
   
115.45   Severability
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 FRANCHISE GRANTED AND LIMITATIONS.
   The franchise to be granted by the City of Schuyler pursuant to this chapter
shall grant to the grantee the right, privilege, and franchise to erect,
construct, operate, and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over, and
under the streets, easements, alleys, public ways, and public places now laid
out or dedicated and all the extensions thereto and additions thereto in the
city; and poles, wire, cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other
television conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation
of a CATV system for the interception, sale, transmission, and distribution of
television programs and other audiovisual electrical signals and the right to
transmit the same to the inhabitants of the city on the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth. The City of Schuyler expressly reserves the right to
grant a similar use of the streets, alleys, public ways, and places to any
person at any time during the period of this franchise.
(1972 Code, § 10-701) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.02 DURATION OF FRANCHISE GRANT.
   The term of the franchise to be granted by the City of Schuyler pursuant to
this chapter shall be for a period of 15 years from and after the grant and
acceptance date of the franchise to be awarded, subject to the conditions and
restrictions as hereinafter provided, and further provided that the Mayor and
City Council shall have the right to review the franchise periodically at such
time as the Mayor and City Council may from time to time elect to do so and as
hereinafter provided.
(1972 Code, § 10-702) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.03 FRANCHISE RIGHTS SUBJECT TO POLICE POWERS.
   In accepting this franchise, the grantee acknowledges that its rights
hereunder are subject to the police power of the city to adopt and enforce
general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public; and it
agrees to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the
city pursuant to the power.
(1972 Code, § 10-703) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.04 TERMS; DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Schuyler Cable
Television Chapter” and it shall be a part of this code with the following
definitions applicable thereto. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   AGENCY. The person, department, or agency designated by the City Council to
act in matters related to CATV.
   CABLECASTING, ORIGINATION AND ACCESS. Programming (exclusive of broadcast
signals) carried on a cable television system.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNAL TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CATV
SYSTEM. Any facility, the primary function of which is either to receive and
amplify the broadcast signals of one or more television and radio stations or
to provide signals for additional closed circuit programming, and to
redistribute the signals to members of the public who subscribe thereto or to
whom redistribution of the signals is required by this chapter, by means of
wires, cables, conduits, or any other devices which are above, below, on, in,
or along highways and other public places.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber, and
by an appropriate channel selector also permits a subscriber to view all
signals delivered at designated dial locations.
   DISTRICT. The area within which the cable operator will provide service.
   FRANCHISE HOLDER. The person or company awarded a franchise for the
operation of a CATV system in the City of Schuyler, the franchise to be awarded
in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, including this chapter.
   SERVICE, BASIC AND ADDITIONAL.
      (1)   BASIC SUBSCRIBER SERVICE. The total of all the following:
         (a)   The transmission of all cablecast channel signals as are
required by the FCC to match the number of broadcast channel signals being
transmitted; and
         (b)   The installation and reconnection of subscriber service outlets.
      (2)   ADDITIONAL SERVICES. Any of the following: the video services as
the transmission of cablecast video advertising messages and pay television
signals.
   STREETS AND HIGHWAYS. Streets, avenues, highways, boulevards, concourses,
driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, waterways, docks, bulkheads,
wharves, piers, alleys, all other public rights-of-way, and public grounds or
waters within or belonging to the city.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity receiving for any
purpose the service of the grantee herein.
   SYSTEM. The broadband communications facility which is to be constructed,
operated, and maintained by the grantee within the City of Schuyler. The system
shall have a minimum 35-channel capacity.
(1972 Code, § 10-704) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.05 FRANCHISE REQUIRED; DURATION; EXCLUSIVITY.
   (A)   The city shall grant a franchise for the use of the streets within the
city for the construction, operation, and maintenance of a CATV system. No
system shall be allowed to occupy or use the streets of the city or be allowed
to operate without a CATV franchise.
   (B)   The franchise shall be granted for a term of 15 years; thereafter,
after full public hearings, and according to the franchise renewal procedure
that follows, the franchise may be renewed for periods of 15 years as in the
opinion of the City Council will serve the public interest. Procedure to
consider franchise renewal:
      (1)   Twelve months before expiration of the franchise, the City Council
shall instruct the CATV Advisory Board to review the performance of the
franchisee and the content of this chapter;
      (2)   After giving public notice, the Board shall proceed to determine
whether the operator has satisfactorily performed his or her obligations under
the franchise. To determine satisfactory performance, the Board shall look at
the technical developments and performance of the system, programming, other
services offered, cost of service, and any other particular requirement set
forth in this chapter. Also, the Board shall consider the franchisee’s annual
reports made for community comment, and industry performance on a national
basis shall be considered;
      (3)   A four-month period shall be provided to determine the franchisee’s
eligibility for renewal;
      (4)   The Board shall then prepare amendments to this chapter that it
believes necessary;
      (5)   The Board shall submit to the City Council recommendations in
regard to:
         (a)   Renewal of the franchise;
         (b)   Changes to the franchise; and
         (c)   Amendments to this chapter.
      (6)   If the City Council finds the franchisee’s performance
satisfactory, a new franchise may be granted pursuant to this chapter as
amended; and
      (7)   In the event the current franchisee is determined by the City
Council to have performed unsatisfactorily, new applicants shall be sought and
evaluated by the CATV Advisory Board and a franchise award made by the City
Council according to a CATV franchising procedure adopted by the City Council.
(1972 Code, § 10-705) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 RE-EVALUATION.
   (A)   The city and the franchisee may hold scheduled re-evaluation sessions
within 30 days of the fifth anniversary dates of the franchisee’s obtaining
certification for the system from the Federal Communications Commission. All
the re-evaluation sessions shall be open to the public and announced in a
newspaper of general circulation at least five days before each session.
   (B)   Special re-evaluation sessions may be held at any time during the term
of the franchise. All the re-evaluation sessions shall be open to the public
and announced in a newspaper of general circulation at least five days before
each session.
   (C)   The following topics may be discussed at every scheduled re-evaluation
session: service rate structures; free or discounted services; application of
new technology; system performances; services provided; programming offered;
customer complaints; amendments to this chapter; undergrounding progress; and
judicial and FCC rulings.
   (D)   Topics in addition to those listed may be added if agreed upon by the
parties. Members of the general public may add topics either by working through
the negotiating parties or by presenting a petition. If such a petition bears
the valid signatures of 50 or more residents of the city, the proposed topic or
topics shall be added to the list of topics to be discussed at the re-
evaluation session.
(1972 Code, § 10-706) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.07 CANCELLATION AND TERMINATION.
   The City Council may cancel the franchise conferred by this chapter at any
time prior to its expiration date upon a finding, made after 30-days’ notice of
the proposed cancellation and public hearing, that the grantee has failed to
cure one or more of the following defects during the 60-day period following
written notice by the City Council to the grantee of such a defect:
   (A)   Material breach, whether by act or omission, of any terms or
conditions of this chapter;
   (B)   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise; and/or
   (C)   Failure to provide subscribers or users with adequate service in the
best interest of the public convenience and welfare.
(1972 Code, § 10-707) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.08 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE MANDATORY.
   The grantee shall be required to provide continuous service to all
subscribers in return for payment of the established fee. If the grantee
overbuilds, rebuilds, modifies, or sells the system, or the grantor revokes or
fails to renew this franchise, or grantor elects to purchase the system, the
grantee is required as part of this franchise to continue to operate the system
until an orderly change of operation is effectuated. In the event the grantee
fails to operate the system for five consecutive days without prior approval of
the City Council, the city or its agency may operate the system until the time
that a new operator is selected.
(1972 Code, § 10-708) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.09 TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNMENTS.
   The franchisee operating under this chapter shall not be permitted to sell,
lease, sublease, transfer, or otherwise change working control of the franchise
herein granted without prior written consent of the City of Schuyler; and no
sale or transfer thereof shall be effective until the vendee, assignee, or
lessee files in the office of the City Clerk an instrument duly executed
reciting the facts of the sale assignment or lease accepting the terms of the
franchise and agreeing to perform all of the conditions thereof. For the
purpose of determining whether it shall consent to the change, transfer, or
acquisition of control, the City Council may inquire into the prospective
controlling party, and the franchisee shall assist the City Council in any such
inquiry. If the City Council does not schedule a hearing on the matter within
60 days after notice of the change or proposed change and the filing of a
petition requesting its consent, the city shall be deemed to have consented. In
the event that the City Council adopts a resolution denying its consent, and
the change, transfer, or acquisition of control has been effected, the City
Council may terminate the franchise. The consent or approval of the City
Council to any assignment, lease, transfer, sublease, or mortgage of the
franchise granted to the franchisee shall not constitute a waiver or release of
the rights of the city in and to the streets. In the absence of extraordinary
circumstances, the City Council will not approve the assignment of the
franchise by the franchisee prior to completion on construction of the CATV
system.
(1972 Code, § 10-709) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.10 FRANCHISE AREA.
   Grantee shall submit, in addition to the application for franchise, a map
showing the franchise area and the projected construction completion date. The
map shall clearly delineate any areas which will not be served, if any.
(1972 Code, § 10-710) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.11 ANNEXATION.
   Upon the annexation of any new territory by the City of Schuyler, the
portion of the CATV system that may be located or operated within the
territory, and the streets, alleys, or public grounds thereof, shall thereafter
be subject to all the terms of this grant as though it were an extension made
thereunder.
(1972 Code, § 10-711) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.12 STANDBY POWER.
   The cable system operator shall maintain equipment capable of providing
standby powering for head end transportation for a minimum of two hours. All
utility safety regulations must be followed to prevent a standby generator from
powering the “dead” utility line, with possible injury to an unwitting lineman.
(1972 Code, § 10-712) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 ANTENNA SWITCH FOR ALTERNATIVE USE OF OFF-AIR ANTENNAS.
   The grantee shall install, at a reasonable cost, an RF switch upon request
by the subscriber.
(1972 Code, § 10-713) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14 TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Methods on construction, installation, and maintenance of the city’s cable
television system shall comply with the National Electrical Safety Code,
National Electrical Code of 1975, National Bureau of Standards, U.S. Department
of Commerce, 11-1-1961, to the extent that the codes are consistent with local
laws affecting the construction, installation, and maintenance of electric
supply and communications lines. To the extent that the code is inconsistent
with other provisions of this franchise and with local law, the latter will
govern.
(1972 Code, § 10-714) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.15 TOWER CONSTRUCTION.
   Any tower constructed for use in the city’s cable television system shall
comply with the standards contained in Structural Standards for Steel Antenna
Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures, EIA Standards RS-222-A, as published
by the Engineering Department of the Electronic Industries Association, 2001
Eye Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006.
(1972 Code, § 10-715) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16 TOWER; FAA REGULATIONS.
   Installation and physical dimensions of any tower constructed for use in the
city’s cable television system shall comply with all appropriate Federal
Aviation Agency regulations, including, but not limited to, Objectives
Affecting Navigable Airspace, 14 C.F.R. §§ 77.1 et seq., February, 1965.
(1972 Code, § 10-716) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.17 ANTENNA STRUCTURE.
   Any antennna structure used in the city’s cable television system shall
comply with Construction Marking, and Lighting of Antenna Structure, 47 C.F.R.
§§ 17.1 et seq., September, 1967.
(1972 Code, § 10-717) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.18 OSHA REGULATIONS.
   All working facilities and conditions used during construction,
installation, and maintenance of the city’s cable television system shall
comply with the standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
(1972 Code, § 10-718) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.19 FCC REGULATIONS.
   The grantee shall comply fully with the rules and standards for cable
television operations as adopted by the Federal Communications Commission, 47
C.F.R. §§ 76.601 through 76.613 (1972). The grantee shall not file any
applications or requests for waivers of the rules and regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission without prior approval of the City Council
after public hearing.
(1972 Code, § 10-719) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.20 CITY REGULATIONS.
   The grantee shall comply full with rules and regulations contained and
promulgated within this chapter and all other city ordinances which apply to
the operation of the cable system.
(1972 Code, § 10-720) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.21 RF LEAKAGE.
   The grantee may be required to check for stray radiation (RF LEAKAGE) at
reception locations for emergency radio services to prove no interference
signal combinations are possible. Stray radiation shall be measured adjacent to
any proposed aeronautical navigation radio sites to prove no interference to
airborne navigational reception in the normal flight patterns.
(1972 Code, § 10-721) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.22 TWO-WAY CAPABILITY.
   The franchisee shall maintain a plat having technical capacity for nonvoice
return communications.
(1972 Code, § 10-722) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.23 HEAD END EQUIPMENT.
   The grantee shall construct, own, and operate its own head end equipment
consisting of a community antenna and tower and satellite receiving station.
The head end equipment shall be located within the city limits of the City of
Schuyler or within three miles therefrom.
(1972 Code, § 10-723) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.24 MICROWAVE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   The grantee is prohibited from providing subsidiary service to its
subscribers by means of microwave reception from a cable television system
located in another city.
(1972 Code, § 10-724) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.25 LOCAL REGULATORY FRAMEWORK AND REGULATIONS; REMEDIES FOR BREACHES.
   (A)   In the event that its service to any subscriber is interrupted for 24
consecutive hours, except for acts of God, and except in circumstances for
which the prior approval of the interruption is obtained from the City Council,
grantee shall provide a prorated rebate of the monthly fees to affected
subscriber.
   (B)   In the event that its service to any subscriber is interrupted for 168
or more consecutive hours, except for acts of God, and except in circumstances
for which prior approval of the interruption is obtained from the City Council,
grantee shall provide a 100% rebate of the monthly fees to the affected
subscribers.
(1972 Code, § 10-725) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.26 CONSTRUCTION TIMETABLES.
   Service shall be made available to 80% of the city within 20 months of the
date of the franchise and 90% of the city within three years of the date of
certificate. Upon the reasonable request for service by any person located
within the city, the grantee shall, within 60 days, furnish service to that
person. A request for service shall be unreasonable for the purpose of this
section, if occurring within five years from the effective date of the
certificate and no trunk line installation capable of servicing that person’s
block has as yet been installed, or, if occurring at any time and direct access
cannot be obtained to that person’s premises and all other means of access are
highly impracticable.
(1972 Code, § 10-726) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.27 FORECLOSURE; RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial
part of the system, or upon the termination of any lease covering all or a
substantial part of the system, the grantee shall notify the city of that fact,
and the notification shall be treated as a notification that a change in
control of the grantee has taken place, and the requirements of this chapter
governing the consent of the City Council to the change in control of the
grantee shall apply.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the right to cancel the franchise 120 days
after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee, to take over and conduct the
business of the grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy,
or other action or proceedings, unless the receivership or trusteeship shall
have been vacated prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election or appointment, the
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the provisions of this
chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   The receiver or trustee, within the 120 days shall have executed an
agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the matter,
whereby the receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and
every provision of this chapter and their certificate granted to the grantee.
(1972 Code, § 10-727) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.28 ESTABLISHMENT OF A REGULATORY ENTITY.
   (A)   Continuing regulatory jurisdiction. The city shall have continuing
regulatory jurisdiction and supervision over the operation of any franchise
granted hereunder and may from time to time adopt the reasonable rules and
regulations as they may deem necessary for the conduct of the business
contemplated thereunder.
   (B)   Authority to establish CATV Advisory Board. The continuing regulatory
jurisdiction of the city shall be exercised by the City of Schuyler City
Council. The City Council shall have the authority to establish and appoint a
CATV Advisory Board consisting of five members who shall serve for five-year
terms with the terms to be staggered. The Board’s duration shall be at the
pleasure of the Council and should the Board be established it shall advise the
City Council of its regulatory jurisdiction and may have the following
responsibilities and duties at the direction of the City Council:
      (1)   Resolving disputes or disagreements between subscribers and the
grantee after an investigation should the subscriber and the grantee not first
be able to resolve their view or disagreement. The decision or findings may be
appealed to the City Council;
      (2)   Reviewing and auditing all reports and filings submitted to the
city as required hereunder and any other correspondence as may be submitted to
the city concerning the operation of the cable television network, and
reviewing the rules and regulations set by the grantee company; and
      (3)   Assuring that all tariffs, rates, and rules pertinent to the
operation of the CATV system in the City of Schuyler are made available for
inspection by the public at reasonable hours and upon reasonable requests.
(1972 Code, § 10-728) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.29 PROCEDURE FOR ANY DAY-TO-DAY REGULATION.
   (A)   Any formal inquiry, proceeding, investigation, or other formal action
to be taken or proposed to be taken by the City Council in regard to the
operations of the grantee’s cable television system shall be taken only after
30-days’ public notice of the action or proposed action is published in a local
daily or weekly newspaper having general circulation in the City of Schuyler, a
copy of the action or proposed action is served directly on the grantee, and
the grantee has been given an opportunity to respond in writing and/or a
hearing as may be specified by the City Council, and general members of the
public have been given an opportunity to respond or comment in writing on the
action or proposed action.
   (B)   The public notice required by this action shall state clearly the
action or proposed action to be taken, the time provided for response and the
person or persons and authority to whom the responses should be addressed, and
the other procedures as may be specified by the CATV Advisory Board. If a
hearing is held, public participation will be allowed. The grantee is a
necessary party to any hearing conducted in regard to this operation.
(1972 Code, § 10-729) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.30 FUNCTIONS TO BE REGULATED.
   (A)   A franchisee shall maintain an office located within the city limits
of the City of Schuyler which shall be open during all usual business hours,
have a publicly listed telephone, and be so operated that complaints and
requests for repairs and adjustments may be received on a 24-hour basis.
   (B)   A franchisee shall maintain a repair and trouble shooting force
capable of responding to subscriber complaints or requests for service within
24 hours after receipt of the complaint or request. No direct charge shall be
made to the subscriber for this service.
   (C)   The grantee shall not, directly or indirectly, engage in the business
of selling, leasing, renting, repairing, or replacing home television receivers
or audio distribution systems except when the audio distribution systems are
provided as an integral part of a video system.
(1972 Code, § 10-730) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31 SUBSCRIBER COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Subscriber notice of complaint procedures. The franchisee shall
establish procedures for receiving, acting upon, and resolving subscriber
complaints to the satisfaction of the Council. The franchisee shall furnish a
notice of the procedures to each subscriber at the time of initial subscription
to the system.
   (B)   Complaint records. The franchisee shall maintain a written record or
“log,” listing date and time of customer complaints, identifying the subscriber
and describing the nature of the complaints and when and what action was taken
by the franchisee in response thereto. The record shall be kept at franchisee’s
local office, reflecting the operations to date for a period of at least one
year, and shall be available for inspection during regular business hours
without further notice or demand by the Council.
   (C)   Repetition of similar complaints. When there have been similar
complaints made or where there exists other evidence, which, in the judgment of
the Council, casts doubt on the reliability or quality of cable service, the
Council shall have the right and authority to compel the franchisee to test,
analyze, and report on the performance of the system. The test or tests shall
be made, and the reports of the test or tests shall be delivered to the city no
later than 14 days after the city formally notifies the franchisee.
      (1)   The report shall include the following information:
         (a)   The nature of the complaint which precipitated the special
tests;
         (b)   The equipment used and procedures employed in the testing;
         (c)   What system component was tested;
         (d)   The method in which the complaints were recorded; and
         (e)   Any other information pertinent to the special test shall be
recorded.
      (2)   The city’s right under this provision shall be limited to requiring
tests, analysis, and reports covering specific subjects and characteristics
based on the complaints or other evidence when and under the circumstances as
the city has reasonable grounds to believe that the complaints or other
evidence require that tests be performed to protect the public against
substandard cable service.
(1972 Code, § 10-731) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.32 EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A franchisee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, or sex. A franchisee shall strictly adhere to
the equal employment opportunity requirements of the FCC, as expressed in 47
C.F.R. Chapter 1, §§ 76.13(h) and 76.311. The franchisee shall comply at all
times with all other applicable federal, state, city, and county laws, and all
executive and administrative orders relating to nondiscrimination. A franchisee
shall make a positive effort to hire racial minorities, women, and other
protected groups as subcontractor if available and qualified.
(1972 Code, § 10-732) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.33 FRANCHISE FEES.
   The grantee shall pay, as compensation to the city, an occupation tax, a sum
equal to 3% of the base rate times the number of subscribers. The tax shall be
paid annually commencing on May 1 or the first year of operation by the grantee
and continuing on May 1 of each succeeding year. Each payment shall be
accompanied by a statement executed by a certified public accountant certifying
the number of subscribers served during each month of the preceding year.
(1972 Code, § 10-733) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.34 RATES.
   (A)   Prior to beginning operation, the grantee shall file with the city a
schedule of tariffs which shall include all fees, charges, and rates to be
charged to subscribers.
   (B)   The rates shall be subject to modification after 8-2-1983 only by the
City Council of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, subject to any FCC regulations
which may be applicable, after a recommendation by the CATV Advisory Board in
accordance with the following procedures, except that the grantee may decrease
rates at any time, to-wit.
      (1)   The company may petition the City Council for a change in rates by
filing a revised rate schedule including its justification(s) for the proposed
new schedule.
      (2)   The City Council shall notify the company of the time and place
established for a hearing on the petition, the company shall within ten days
thereafter notify its subscribers of the time, date, place, and subject matter
of the hearing by announcement on at least one of its channels, between the
hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., for five consecutive days. At least 30 days
prior to the first public meeting held to examine programming content and
rates, each rate payer or subscriber shall be notified by billing statement or
other written notice when and where the public meeting shall be held. The
notice shall also provide information as consideration by the Council.
Following all proper notice, but in no event later than 90 days from the date
of the filing of the petition, the City Council shall hold a public meeting at
which the rate payers and the company may comment on the programming content
and rate of the company.
      (3)   The City Council shall act within six months from the date of the
company’s petition and if the City Council so fails to act within six months
from date of company’s petition, the company shall thereafter be entitled to
put its proposed new rates into effect on a provisional basis, provided that it
shall keep a full and accurate accounting of all income resulting from the
provisional rates and shall be obliged for a period of up to six months
thereafter to refund the amount by which the provisional rates exceed the rates
ultimately established by the City Council. Upon a bond or other reasonable
surety to ensure that possible refunds due under this division (B) shall be
promptly made or in the alternative the company shall place the funds in
escrow. The bond or surety shall be in an amount not to exceed the difference
between the amount of revenues generated in six months at the previously
existing rates and the amount of revenues expected to be generated in six
months at the provisional rates.
      (4)   The criteria for the City Council decision in such matters shall be
establishment of rates which are “fair and reasonable” to both the company and
its subscribers and shall be generally defined as the minimum rates necessary
to meet all applicable cost of service, including fair return on all invested
capital, all assuming efficient and economical management.
      (5)   In order for the City Council to determine whether proposed rate
changes comport with the criteria established in division (B)(4) above, the
company’s petition for a rate increase shall include the following financial
reports, which shall reflect the operations of the Schuyler system only:
         (a)   Balance sheet;
         (b)   Income statement;
         (c)   Cash flow statement;
         (d)   Statement of sources and applications of funds;
         (e)   Detailed supporting schedules of expenses, income, assets, and
other items as may be required; and
         (f)   Statement of current and projected subscribers and penetration.
      (6)   The company’s accounting records applicable to the system shall be
available for inspection by the city at all reasonable times. The city shall
have access to records of financial transactions for the purpose of verifying
burden rates or other indirect costs prorated to the Schuyler operation. The
documents listed above shall include sufficient detail and/or footnotes as may
be necessary to provide the city with the information needed to make accurate
determinations as to the financial condition of the system. All financial
statements shall be certified as accurate by an officer of the company.
(1972 Code, § 10-734) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980; Ord. 710, passed 8-16-1983)
§ 115.35 USER CLASSES AND DIVISION.
   Subscribers may be divided into commercial and residential classes. Nothing
in this provision shall prohibit the reduction or waiving of charges in
conjunction with promotional campaigns for the purpose of attracting
subscribers. Rates for commercial and noncommercial users of access channels
may be established separately. Nothing herein shall prohibit preferential rates
for noncommercial users.
(1972 Code, § 10-735) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.36 ADVANCE CHARGES AND DEPOSITS.
   A franchisee may require subscribers to pay for each month of basic service
in advance at the beginning of each month. Nothing in this provision shall be
construed to prohibit charges or waiver of charges for initial installation or
reconnection.
(1972 Code, § 10-736) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.37 INSTALLATION AND RECONNECTION.
   Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in this chapter, a franchisee may
make a charge to subscribers for the installation of service outlets and for
the reconnection of service outlets.
(1972 Code, § 10-737) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.38 DISCONNECTION.
   There shall be no charge for disconnection of any installation or outlet. If
any subscriber fails to pay a properly due monthly subscriber fee, or any other
properly due fee or charge, the franchisee may disconnect the subscribers
service outlet, provided, however, that the disconnection shall not be affected
until 30 days after the due date of the delinquent fee or charge and shall
include ten-days’ written notice of the intent to disconnect delivered to the
subscriber in question. If a subscriber pays 30 days after payment is due and
after notice of disconnection has been given, a franchisee shall not
disconnect. After disconnection, upon payment in full of the delinquent fee or
charge and the payment of reconnection charge, a franchisee shall promptly
reinstate a subscribers cable service.
(1972 Code, § 10-738) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.39 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   No later than March 31 of each year, a franchisee shall submit a written
report to the city, in a form directed by the City Council, which shall
include:
   (A)   A summary of the previous year activities and development of this
system, including, but not limited to, services begun or dropped, subscribers
gain or loss;
   (B)   A copy of the grantee’s balance sheet;
   (C)   A list of officers and members of the Board of the franchisee and the
parent corporation, if any; and
   (D)   A list of all stockholders holding 3% or more of the voting stock of a
franchisee and the parent corporation, if any.
(1972 Code, § 10-739) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.40 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND CONDITIONS FOR USE.
   (A)   The grantee’s use of existing poles or conduits belonging to the City
of Schuyler, or the erection or construction of new poles or conduits shall be
governed by a separate pole use agreement. The city shall have the right to
make additional use, for any public or municipal purpose, of any poles or
conduits controlled or maintained exclusively by or for grantee in any street,
provided the use by city does not interfere with the use by grantee. The city
shall indemnify and hold harmless grantee against and from any and all claims,
demands, causes of actions, actions, suits, proceedings, damages, costs, or
liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of the use of
grantee’s poles or conduits.
   (B)   All wires, conduits, cables, and other property and facilities of the
grantee shall be so located, constructed, installed and maintained as not to
endanger or unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade,
traffic, and travel upon the streets or public places of the city. The grantee
shall keep accurate maps and records of all its facilities and furnish copies
of the maps and records as requested by the city.
   (C)   In the event that at any time during the period of this franchise, the
city shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, alley, or
other public way, the grantee upon reasonable notice by the city shall remove,
relay, and relocate its poles, wires, cables, under ground conduits, manholes,
and other television conductors and fixtures at its own expense.
   (D)   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of the
building. The expense of the temporary removal, raising, or lowering of wires
shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the grantee shall have the
authority to require the payment in advance.
   (E)   The grantee at its own cost and expense and in the manner approved by
the city shall replace and restore all paving, sidewalks, driveways, or surface
of any street or alley disturbed, in as good condition as before the work was
commenced and shall maintain the restoration in an improved condition for a
period of one year from the date of making same. Failure of the grantee to
replace or restore the paving, sidewalk, driveway, or surface of any such
street or alley within 48 hours after completion of the grantee’s work shall
authorize the city to cause the proper restoration to be made and the expense
thereof to be charged to the grantee which shall be paid by the grantee upon
demand by the city.
   (F)   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and over
hanging streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other public places of the city so as
to prevent the branches of the trees from coming in contact with the wires and
cables of the grantee. The grantee shall make every effort to preserve the
esthetic beauty and viability of any trees trimmed. All trimming to be done
under the supervision and direction of the city and at the expense of the
grantee.
(1972 Code, § 10-740) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.41 INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Indemnity. The grantee shall pay by its acceptance of this franchise
and specifically agrees that it will pay all damages and penalties which the
city may legally be required to pay as a result of granting this franchise.
These damages or penalties shall include, but shall not be limited to, damages
arising out of copyright infringements and all other damages arising out of the
installation, operation, or maintenance of the CATV system authorized herein,
whether or not any act of omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or
prohibited by this franchise. The grantee shall save the city harmless from any
claim or demand whatsoever arising out of any copyright infringement on the
part of the grantee in the operation of the system. The grantee agrees to
defend the city from any suit, judgment, execution, claim, or demand whatsoever
arising from the copyright infringement at the grantee’s own cost and expense.
The grantee shall pay by its acceptance of this franchise and specifically
agrees that it will pay all expenses incurred by the city in defending itself
with regard to all penalties and damages mentioned in this section.
   (B)   Insurance.
      (1)   The grantee shall maintain and by its acceptance of this franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the terms of this
franchise liability insurance, insuring the city and the grantee in regard to
all damages mentioned in division (A) above in the minimum allowance of:
         (a)   $500,000 for bodily injury or death to any one person within the
limit, however, $1,000,000 for bodily injury or injury or death resulting from
any one accident;
         (b)   $250,000 for property damage resulting from any one accident;
         (c)   $125,000 for the infringement of copy right; and
         (d)   $125,000 for all other types of liability.
      (2)   The insurance policy obtained by the grantee in compliance with
this section must be approved by the City Council and the insurance policy
along with written evidence of payment of the required premium, shall be filed
and maintained with the City Clerk during the term of this franchise.
   (C)   Bond. The grantee shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the franchise after the acceptance is filed by the grantee, post with the city
a performance bond in the amount of $25,000 which will be returned to the
grantee at the end of three years provided the grantee has in good faith during
the time commenced the construction of the system to be operated pursuant to
this franchise and has in good faith complied with the details of this chapter
and the rules and regulations herein required. In default of the grantee
performing the obligation herein set out, the sum of $25,000 shall be forfeited
to the city.
(1972 Code, § 10-741) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.42 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Public hearings shall be conducted in accordance with standards of due
process in fairness to applicants and the public, and in accordance with the
FCC rules and regulations and orders and policies pertinent to the hearings.
The grantee shall assume the cost of any publication required under any law or
ordinance of the city or the State of Nebraska, and same shall be paid by the
grantee at the time of filing its acceptance under the terms hereof, or
thereafter when due.
(1972 Code, § 10-742) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.43 SERVICE TO SCHOOLS AND CITY.
   Grantee shall provide to the city six connections to be selected by the City
of Schuyler, without charge, one junction terminal to each of the buildings at
a location therein to be selected by the city, and shall also furnish to those
buildings without charge, basic service of all sets connected within the
buildings to the terminal junction.
(1972 Code, § 10-743) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.44 TAMPERING OR UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
unauthorized connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically,
inductively, or otherwise, with any part of a franchise CATV system within this
city for the purpose of enabling himself or herself or others to receive any
television signal, radio signal, picture, program or sound, without payment to
the owner of the system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
to willfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires, or equipment used
for distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, or
sound.
(1972 Code, § 10-744) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.45 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court or
regulatory body of competent jurisdiction, the decisions shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof. The Council hereby declares that it
would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
and phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared illegal, invalid, or
unconstitutional. The validity of any portion of this chapter shall not abate,
reduce, or otherwise affect any consideration or other obligation required of
the grantee.
(1972 Code, § 10-745) (Ord. 638, passed 4-15-1980)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in
the particular section for which the person stands convicted of violating, the
penalty for that violation shall be in any amount not to exceed $500 and/or
shall be imprisoned for any length of time not to exceed three months, in the
discretion of the court. Nothing herein shall prevent prosecution under state
law where the possible penalty, either fine or imprisonment, exceeds the limits
specified herein.
(1972 Code, § 10-901) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Resisting officer
   
130.02   Trespassing
   
130.03   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.04   Disturbing the peace
   
130.05   Unlawful assembly
   
130.06   Failure to disperse
   
130.07   Indecent behavior
   
130.08   Larceny
   
130.09   Removing dirt
   
130.10   Radio interference
   
130.11   Visiting gambling house
   
130.12   Injury to trees
   
130.13   Destruction of park property
   
130.14   Reserved
   
130.15   Reserved
   
130.16   Street games
   
130.17   Obstruction of public ways
   
130.18   Street obstructions
   
130.19   Abandoned automobiles
   
130.20   Curfew
   
130.21   Unlawful possession of tobacco; including possession via electronic
delivery system; alternative nicotine products
   
130.22   Driving on public sidewalks
   
130.23   Gasoline dispensers
   
130.24   Unlawful growings
   
130.25   Hooking rides
   
130.26   Stunt flying
   
130.27   Field crops prohibited
   
130.28   Unlawful deposit of trash, debris, refuse, and discarded material
   
130.29   (Reserved)
   
130.30   Sexual conduct
   
130.31   Parking unregistered vehicles in residential zones
   
130.32   Public nudity
   
130.33   Urinating and defecating in public
   
130.34   Noise control
   
130.35   Consumption of alcoholic liquor on public property
   
130.36   Inhalants; intentionally used for the purpose of intoxication;
possession by minors; sale
Sexual Predator Residency Restrictions
   
130.40   Findings and intent
   
130.41   Definitions
   
130.42   Penalties; exceptions
Weapons and Explosives
   
130.50   Discharge of firearms
   
130.51   Slingshots; air rifles
   
130.52   Discharging fireworks
   
130.53   Fireworks vendors regulations
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist, fail to assist, or abuse a
police officer or municipal official in the execution of his or her office.
(Neb. RS 28-729) (1972 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the municipality, or to break, cut, or injure any tree, shrub, plant,
flower, or grass growing thereon, or without the consent of the owner or
occupant to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence
purposes and to loiter about the same. No person shall swim, bathe, or wade in
any stream, lake, or other body of water situated in the Municipal Park, except
in a regularly established swimming pool. Nor shall any person fish in any body
of water located in the park except as may be provided by the Park Board.
(1972 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully, or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another. Nothing herein
shall be construed to inhibit in any way the indemnification to the owner of
the property by any person convicted hereunder.
(1972 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally, recklessly, or
knowingly disturb the peace and quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood,
or any public assembly.
   (B)   The offense of disturbing the peace shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting;
      (2)   Exhibiting threatening or violent conduct directed towards another
person;
      (3)   Using abusive, threatening, or other fighting language or gestures
directed towards another person or persons; and
      (4)   To intentionally provoke or attempting to provoke an assault upon
oneself or another.
(1972 Code, § 6-306) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing the peace; penalty, see Neb. RS 28-1322
   Disturbing the peace; punishment, see Neb. RS 16-288
§ 130.05 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts,
by force or violence against the municipality, or residents therein, or who
shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality.
Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(1972 Code, § 6-307) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a person
or persons are creating a disturbance of the peace and quiet of any person or
neighborhood, the police officer may order the person or persons not residing
on the premises to disperse for the purpose of abating the disturbance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to comply with a lawful
order to disperse given by a police officer in the performance of the officer’s
duties under this section.
(1972 Code, § 6-308) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-3-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 INDECENT BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons over the age of 14 years to
commit any indecent or immoral act, or to appear in any public place in
improper clothing, or not decently garbed. It shall be unlawful for any person,
or persons, to sell or convey any indecent and obscene books, pictures, or
films, or to take part in any indecent, lascivious, or obscene show, play,
theatrical exhibition, or other form of entertainment that is shocking to the
public morals. Any person or persons who commit a rude, indecent, or immoral
act shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
1972 Code, § 6-309)
Statutory reference:
   Indecent behavior; ordinance authorized, see Neb. RS 16-228 and 28-806
§ 130.08 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than $300 shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-512 and 28-514) (1972 Code, § 6-310) (Ord. 527, passed 7-15-1975)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb, or take
away from any street, alley, or public grounds any dirt, earth, stones, or
other materials forming a part of the street, alley, or public grounds without
first having obtained written permission to do so from the Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 6-317) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 RADIO INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference; provided, that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use
of necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference
cannot be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates, or
causes to be operated, any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually
with radio and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (1972 Code, § 6-318) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 VISITING GAMBLING HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to visit, frequent, or loaf about any
room or place where gambling or the playing of games of chance for money, or
articles representing money or property, is conducted or permitted, knowing the
same to be such a place.
(1972 Code, § 6-321) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or carelessly, and without
lawful authority, cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy the
fruit of any trees planted or growing in the corporate limits. Any public
service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree, except on property owned
and controlled by them, shall make an application to the Governing Body to do
so, and the written permit of the Governing Body in accordance with their
decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only lawful authority on
the part of the company to do so.
(1972 Code, § 6-322) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall cut down, injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub,
or who shall injure, or destroy any building, equipment, or paraphernalia
belonging to the municipality and installed in its parks, or who shall commit
any waste of any kind therein, shall upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more than
$100.
(1972 Code, § 6-323) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 RESERVED.
§ 130.15 RESERVED.
§ 130.16 STREET GAMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, kick or throw
a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport upon the municipal streets
and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the
Governing Body from ordering from time to time certain streets and public
places blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in the
exercise and sport.
(1972 Code, § 6-326) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same.
(1972 Code, § 6-327) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 STREET OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the limits of this
municipality, to erect or maintain any building or structure in such a manner
as to be unsafe, injurious, or annoying to the public, or allow any sidewalk,
curbstone, gutter, awning, or awning post to be placed or remain in a dangerous
condition; or to place or suffer to remain on any sidewalk or street any
obstruction injurious to the public use of the same. Any building or
obstruction of any kind whatsoever, standing in whole or in part on any street
or alley of the municipality is hereby declared a nuisance.
(1972 Code, § 6-328)
§ 130.19 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed thereto,
for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of City of
Schuyler law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-
registered owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the City of Schuyler
pursuant to City of Schuyler ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of City of
Schuyler law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-
registered owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the City of Schuyler
pursuant to City of Schuyler ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of the title as set
forth in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without permanent
foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units that can
be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity, or of two
or more units, separately towable to be joined into one integral unit, and
shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-4603. MOBILE HOME
does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which an affidavit of
affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or City of Schuyler-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year of valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to Neb.
RS 60-376 affixed, and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the
condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in the
City of Schuyler. Any certificate of title issued under this division to the
City of Schuyler shall be issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the city shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The City of Schuyler shall notify the last-registered owner, if
any, and any lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle is
question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed,
either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   The title will vest in the City of Schuyler 30 days after the
date such notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notified the City of Schuyler that a lien or mortgage exists, such
notice shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming
such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such
vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the city has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the city shall, at the time that the notice, if any is
mailed, published in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 days stating that the vehicle is in the
custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed for
law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of the
vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from property
upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the vehicle is
located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division is subject to
Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing service which
towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed, and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
services that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a trespassing vehicle is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. of this section to be removed from public property in this
City of Schuyler, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle.
If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)1.,
2., 3. or 4., or (A)(b)1., 2. or 3. of this section to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city's
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner's agent, owner's employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)1., 2., 3. or 4., or (A)(b)1., 2. or 3. of this
section.
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violation this division shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person in violation of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
(1972 Code, § 6-330) (Ord. 953, passed 11-20-2001; Ord. 2015-05, passed 3-17-
2015; Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-5-2019; Ord. 2022-03, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 130.20 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to remain
in or upon the public streets, avenues, highways, roads, alleys, playgrounds,
public buildings, places of public amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or
other public places, or to ride in or upon, drive, or otherwise operate any
automobile, bicycle, or other vehicle in, upon, over, or through the streets,
alleys, or other public places of the City of Schuyler between the hours of 10:
01 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (2)   Involved in an emergency;
      (3)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (4)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (5)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(1972 Code, § 6-331) (Ord. 846, passed 2-7-1995)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF TOBACCO; INCLUDING POSSESSION VIA ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY SYSTEM; ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS.
   Any person under the age of 18 years who shall have in his or her possession
or physical control any cigarettes, cigars, tobacco material in any form
whatsoever including through the use of electronic nicotine delivery systems or
alternative nicotine products, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and penalized
pursuant to §
130.99. Any person so charged with the violation of this section may be free
from prosecution when such individual shall have furnished evidence for the
conviction of the person or persons selling or giving to such individual under
the age of 18, the cigarettes, cigars, tobacco material or nicotine including
possession via electronic nicotine delivery systems and alternative nicotine
products or tobacco material.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 2-7-2023)
§ 130.22 DRIVING ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any animal, automobile,
motorcycle, motor bicycle, or other vehicle upon or across any sidewalk within
this municipality at any place other than at the place or places where there
has been and is prepared an established roadway across the sidewalk; provided,
that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the firefighters of the
municipality in the performance of their functions or duties.
(1972 Code, § 6-333) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 GASOLINE DISPENSERS.
   All pumps or any other mechanical measuring devices, used for retailing or
dispensing gasoline shall be securely locked so that no liquid may be drawn
therefrom except when the operation of the pumps or other devices is under the
supervision and in charge of an attendant. The Mayor and Council of the
municipality hereby determine and declare this section to be necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, and safety. Nothing herein
shall be construed to prevent or prohibit the use of self-service gas pumps, if
such is the intention of the owner.
(1972 Code, § 6-334)
§ 130.24 UNLAWFUL GROWINGS.
   Growing or maintaining or permitting the growing of bindweed, Texas sandburs
or puncture vine upon any premise in or adjacent to any street or alley within
the corporate limits of the municipality, or growing or maintaining or
permitting the growing of the fruit-bearing tree commonly known as the Russian
mulberry tree in or adjacent to any street in the municipality, where the limbs
of the tree or trees extend over or onto any sidewalk space or any paved street
or any part thereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is hereby
prohibited.
(1972 Code, § 6-335) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 HOOKING RIDES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to be found
loafing around the depots and yards of any railroad company or to be found
jumping on or hooking rides on any railroad car or engine.
(1972 Code, § 6-336) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 STUNT FLYING.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner or operator of any balloon,
dirigible, airplane, or other machine, apparatus, or device of any character or
kind used for aerial traffic to cause or permit the same to reach a point or
position in the air closer than 2,000 feet to the surface of the ground while
the balloon, dirigible, airplane, machine, apparatus, or device is passing over
the corporate limits of the municipality; provided, that the foregoing does not
pertain to any helicopter being used by or for Memorial Hospital, Inc.
business, and permission is hereby granted to allow the helicopter to land on
the Memorial Hospital, Inc. grounds for the purpose of transacting the business
only. No person operating any airplane or other machine, apparatus, or device
of any kind or character used for aerial traffic shall loop-the-loop, indulge
in tail spins, or in any manner engage in any stunt flying or carry out any
maneuver more dangerous to person or property than the ordinary and proper
flight of the airplane, or other machine, apparatus, or device, over the
corporate limits of this municipality.
(1972 Code, § 6-337) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 FIELD CROPS PROHIBITED.
   The growing of field crops on vacant lots and acreages within the corporate
limits is hereby prohibited; provided, however, that the growing of field crops
on vacant lots and acreages within the corporate limits may be permitted under
the following conditions.
   (A)   The tenant or owner, whichever one is desiring to grow the crops, on
the property shall first apply to the Municipal Clerk for a permit to grow
crops, the crops to be specifically set forth in the permit.
   (B)   A public hearing be held before the Governing Body. The hearing to be
held within ten days after the publication of the notice of public hearing once
in a legal newspaper for the county, at which time written objections may be
heard.
   (C)   If 51% of the resident owners or tenants of the surrounding property
object in writing at the public hearing, then the permit shall be denied.
   (D)   If less than 51% of the resident owners or tenants of the surrounding
property object, as set forth above, then the Governing Body shall grant the
permit and the Municipal Clerk shall be instructed to issue the permit.
   (E)   The permit shall grant permission to grow only the crop specifically
set forth in the permit.
   (F)   No permit shall be necessary to grow alfalfa or garden vegetables.
(1972 Code, § 6-338) (Ord. 483, passed 8-8-1972) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF TRASH, DEBRIS, REFUSE, AND DISCARDED MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw, scatter, or deposit, in
any manner, or by any means or method, any garbage, debris, refuse, or waste
material, objects, or substances, upon any lands, premises, or property not
belonging to, or under the control of the person. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to any person who shall place, throw, scatter, or
deposit any such material upon lands, premises, or property, with permission of
the owner of the lands, premises, or property, or the person in control
thereof.
(1972 Code, § 6-339) (Ord. 521, passed 2-18-1975) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.29 (RESERVED).
§ 130.30 SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any employee or performer (including amateur
performers) in any business or commercial establishment to have any sexual
contact with any other employee, performer, or patron for gratuity, pay, or
other remuneration, direct or indirect, or in conjunction with or as part of
any performance or entertainment in any business or commercial establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any patron to have sexual contact with any
employee or performer in any business or commercial establishment.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, SEXUAL CONTACT shall mean the
intentional touching between a patron, a performer, or employee involving
contact by or with a patron’s, performer’s or employee’s sexual organ, buttock
(s), or breast(s), whether covered or not, or kissing, when the contact can
reasonably be construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal or sexual
gratification of either party or any observer.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or knowingly to solicit,
induce, or attempt to induce another person to engage in an act or acts
prohibited hereunder.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, proprietor, or manager of
any business or commercial establishment to knowingly allow any person on the
premises of the business or commercial establishment to engage in an act or
acts prohibited hereunder.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a theater, concert
hall, art center, museum, or similar establishment which is primarily devoted
to the arts or theatrical performances and in which any of the circumstances
contained in this section were permitted or allowed as part of the art exhibits
or performances.
(1972 Code, § 6-342) (Ord. 981, passed 8-18-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.31 PARKING UNREGISTERED VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The Governing Body of the city finds that the proliferation of motor
vehicles in residential zones is unsightly and in some cases creating nuisance
situations. Contributing factors are unlicensed and unregistered vehicles.
   (B)    It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, trailer,
semi trailer, or cabin trailer within the R-1 Single Family Residential Zone,
R-2 Urban Family Residential Zone, or R-3 Multiple Family Residential Zone or
MH Multiple Home Residential Zone, unless the vehicle is registered in
accordance with the requirements of Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3.
   (C)   No owner or lessee or real estate located within the R-1 Single Family
Residential Zone, R-2 Urban Family Residential Zone, or R-3 Multiple Family
Residential Zone, or MH Multiple Home Residential Zone shall permit the parking
of any motor vehicle, trailer, semi-trailer, or cabin trailer, unless the
vehicle is registered in accordance with the requirements of Neb. RS Chapter
60, Article 3.
   (D)   All definitions of terms in this section shall be the same as those
definitions set forth in Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 3.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Unregistered vehicles kept in an enclosed structure; and/or
      (2)   Unregistered motor vehicles which have been unregistered for not
more than 30 days from the date of the title of the motor vehicle, if a
transfer in ownership has taken place, or it has been unregistered for not more
than 30 days after expiration of the last registration, if the motor vehicle
was previously registered.
(1972 Code, § 6-343) (Ord. 974, passed 12-17-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It is intent of the city to prohibit the exploitation of human nudity
for the purpose of advertising, selling, or otherwise promoting the economic
interests of any type of business enterprise. It is also the intent of the city
to further the government’s interest in avoiding the harmful secondary effects
of this activity such as prostitution, sexual assaults, criminal activity,
degradation of women, and other activities which break down family structure.
This prohibition is not intended to extend to any expression of opinion or the
performance of a bona fide play, ballet, or drama protected by the First
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States or by Article I, Section 5
of the Constitution of the State of Nebraska.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to, knowingly or intentionally, in a
public place or in any place open to the public, appear in a state of nudity.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area
with less than a fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with
less than a fully opaque covering on any part of the areola and nipple, or the
showing of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any theater, concert hall, art center, museum, or similar
establishment which is primarily devoted to the arts or theatrical performances
and in which any of the circumstances contained in this section were permitted
or allowed as part of the art exhibit or performance; and/or
      (2)   Any dressing/changing room or restroom facility open to the public.
(1972 Code, § 6-344) (Ord. 980, passed 8-19-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.33 URINATING AND DEFECATING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any
public street, alley, highway, road, park, public building, or any public place
unless done in an enclosed space specifically designed for that purpose such as
a restroom or toilet.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate any place
within the corporate limits if done in view of another person. This provision
applies only if the person urinating or defecating is on premises other than
those premises occupied by the person viewing the act.
   (C)   It shall be a defense to these provisions that the person so urinating
or defecating was of an age or mental capacity so as to not know the import of
his or her act.
(1972 Code, § 6-345) (Ord. 996, passed 10-19-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.34 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Citation. This section shall be known as the “Noise Control Ordinance”
of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, and shall be cited as §
130.34 of the Schuyler Municipal Code.
   (B)   Policy. Whereas excessive sound is a serious hazard to the public
health and welfare, safety, and the quality of life; and whereas a substantial
body of science and technology exists by which excessive sound and vibration
may be substantially abated; and, whereas the people have a right to and should
be ensured an environment free from excessive sound and vibration that may
jeopardize the health and welfare or safety of its citizens or degrade the
quality of life. It is therefore the policy of the city to prevent excessive
sound and vibration which will jeopardize the health and welfare or safety of
its citizens or degrade the quality of life.
   (C)   Noise disturbances prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall make, permit, continue, or cause to be made or
continued, any noise disturbance. A person permitting a noise disturbance shall
include, but not be limited to, the owner, manager or tenant of the real estate
property of the noise source. For sources of noise other than those
specifically listed in this subsection, determinations of noise disturbances
may be made through application of the sound level limits listed at Table 1 in
division (C)(4). Without limiting the foregoing, the following acts, and the
causing or permitting thereof, are declared to be in violation of this
prohibition:
         (a)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, and similar
devices.
            1.   Operating, playing, or permitting the operation or playing of
any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier,
or similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound in such a
manner as to create a noise disturbance across a residential zoned district
real property boundary, except for activities open to the public and for which
any required permit has been issued. For those activities requiring a permit, a
property line noise limit and/or time limit will be established that is
agreeable to the permit grantor, the Health Officer, and the grantee.
            2.   In all other cases, property line noise standards for the
residential zoned district receiving land use may be applied to determine the
existence of noise disturbance. The standards are 65 db(a), maximum three-
minute Leq, for the time period 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.; and 55 db(a), maximum
three-minute Leq, for the time period 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
         (b)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tools
or equipment used in construction, drilling, or demolition work:
            1.   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following
day on any day in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a
residential zoned district real property boundary, except the emergency work of
public service utilities or by variance issued pursuant to this section.
            2.   This division shall not apply to the use of domestic power
tools of a type normally found in the home.
         (c)   Vehicle or motorboat repairs and testing. Repairing, rebuilding,
modifying, or testing any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or motorboat in such a
manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential zoned district real
property boundary. The following property line noise standards may be applied
to the residential receiving land use to determine the existence of a noise
disturbance, except as noted in division (C)(3): 65 db(a), maximum five-minute
Leq, for the time period 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., and 55 db(a), maximum five-
minute Leq, for the time period 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
         (d)   Tampering with sound monitoring equipment. The removing or
rendering inaccurate or inoperative of any sound monitoring instrument or
device positioned by or for the Health Officer; provided, such device or the
immediate area is clearly labeled to warn of the potential illegality.
      (2)   Measurements to determine whether a noise disturbance exists shall
be made at or within the property boundary of the receiving land use. The
measurements shall be made with a sound level meter meeting the standards of
the American national Standards Institute (ANSI), or its successor body, for a
minimum of a Type II meter.
      (3)   All activities within a commercial or industrial district zone area
shall be exempt from any of the general or specific provisions in division (C)
(1)(c) between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. of the same day on any day.
      (4)   If a noise level limit has been established by another city
department for a specific noise source or activity, that limit shall be used to
determine the existence of noise disturbance if different from a level in
division (C)(1) or Table 1 below that may be applicable.
Table I: Sound Levels by Receiving Land Use
Receiving Land Use Category Time Sound Level Limit, in dBA Maximum Ten-Minute*
                                 Leq Level**
Table I: Sound Levels by Receiving Land Use
                                                     Sound Level Limit, in dBA
Receiving Land Use Category  Time                    Maximum Ten-Minute* Leq
                                                     Level**
Residential zoned district   7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 65
                             10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 55
Agricultural residential     7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 60
zoned district               10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 50
Commercial or Business zoned At all times            70
district
Industrial zoned district    At all times            75
Agricultural zoned district  6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 75
                             10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. 50
*Unless a different time period has been specified for the specific types of
noise disturbances listed under division (C).
**Slow meter response or use meter with Leq function.
 
   (D)   Emergency exception. 
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
         (a)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency;
         (b)   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work; or
         (c)   The emission of sound in the performance of governmental
services.
      (2)   Nothing in this section, however, shall be construed to permit law
enforcement, ambulance, fire, or other emergency personnel, or persons
performing governmental services to make excessive noise in the performance of
their duties when such noise is clearly unnecessary.
   (E)   Variances.
      (1)   The Health Officer, which for purposes of this section, shall be
the City of Schuyler Chief of Police, who shall have the authority to grant an
initial variance to the strict application of division (C), for a period of not
to exceed 15 calendar days. Any person seeking such a variance shall file an
application with the Health Officer and shall submit a permit fee of $25. The
application shall contain the information which demonstrates that bringing the
source of sound or activity for which the variance is sought into compliance
with this ordinance would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant,
on the community, or on other persons.
      (2)   The Health Officer-shall have the authority to grant an extension
to any variance. Any person seeking such an extension shall file an application
with the Health Officer. Notice of an application for an extension shall be
posted by a sign placed in a conspicuous place on or near the property upon
which action is pending. No extension shall be granted for a period of two days
from and after posting of the property.
      (3)   (a)   Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by
allowance of any requested extension of variance may, prior to the end of the
two-day period after posting of the property, file a statement with the Health
Officer containing any information to support the claim. If the Health Officer
finds that a sufficient controversy exists regarding an application, a public
hearing shall be held. All such hearings shall be held within five days after
the period for filing claims under this division has ended.
         (b)   In determining whether to grant or deny any application, the
Health Officer shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community, and
other persons of not granting the variance or extension against the adverse
impact to the health, safety, and welfare of persons affected, the adverse
impact on property affected, and any other adverse impacts of granting the
variance or extension. Applicants for variances or extensions and persons
contesting extensions may be required to submit any information the Health
Officer may reasonably require. In granting or denying an application, the
Health Officer shall place on public file a copy of the decision and the
reasons for denying or granting the variance or extension and the criteria to
be considered in deciding whether to grant variances and extensions.
         (c)   Variances or extensions shall be granted by notice to the
applicant containing all necessary conditions, including a time limit on the
permitted activity. The variance or extension shall not become effective until
all conditions are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any condition
of the variance or extension shall terminate such variance or extension and
subject the applicant to those provisions of this section regulating the source
of sound or activity for which the variance or extension was granted.
         (d)   The Health Officer may issue guidelines defining the procedures
to be followed in applying for a variance or extension and the criteria to be
considered in deciding whether to grant variances and extensions.
      (4)   (1)   Any person who is aggrieved by a decision or order of the
Health Officer under this section may appeal such decision or order to the City
of Schuyler Board of Adjustment, by filing a notice of appeal with the City
Clerk of Schuyler within 15 days from the date of the issuance of such decision
or order by the Health Officer.
         (2)   The City Clerk of the City of Schuyler Board of Adjustment,
having received a properly submitted notice of appeal, shall notify the
chairperson of the City of Schuyler Board of Adjustment, and establish a date
for the appeals hearing. The City Clerk shall then notify the person making the
appeal, and any person who appeared before or filed a statement with the Health
Officer, in writing of the time and place of the hearing, which shall, in no
event, be more than 15 days from the date of the filing of the notice of appeal
with the board secretary. The City of Schuyler Board of Adjustment shall,
within seven days of the concluding date of the appeals hearing, file with the
Health Officer a written final decision, either affirming the decision of the
Health Officer, or modifying or reversing same. A copy of said decision shall
be forwarded to the appellant.
   (F)   Abatement orders.
      (1)   The Health Officer or other agency responsible for enforcement of
any provision of this section may issue an order requiring abatement of any
sources of sound alleged to be in violation of this section within a reasonable
time period and according to the guidelines which the Health Officer may
prescribe. Such abatement orders may be issued in lieu of prosecution for
violation, and failure to comply with any abatement order shall be a violation
of this section.
      (2)   Any person who violates an order issued pursuant to this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined an
amount not exceeding $500. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as a
separate offense.
   (G)   Effective date. This section shall be effective from and after its
passage and posting as provided by law.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 5-3-2005; Ord. 2008-08, passed 8-5-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.35 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor upon any property owned or controlled by the
city.
   (B)   Consent for the consumption of alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the city may be granted by the Governing Body upon application in
writing setting forth with specificity the area on which consumption is
desired; the date, or dates, and hours; and the sponsoring organization,
person, or persons.
   (C)   The Governing Body hereby grants to the Mayor the authority to give
consent for the consumption of alcoholic liquor pursuant to this section when
the application is made by a not-for-profit organization or civic group. The
Mayor’s authority is limited to granting the not-for-profit organization or
civic group consent one time in a calendar year for one day only.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.36 INHALANTS; INTENTIONALLY USED FOR THE PURPOSE OF INTOXICATION;
POSSESSION BY MINORS; SALE.
   The following acts shall be unlawful under this section:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally smell or inhale
the fumes of toxic vapors or to induce any other person to do so, for the
purpose of causing a condition of, or inducing symptoms of intoxication,
elation, euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration,
paralysis, stupefaction, or dulling of the senses of the nervous system, or for
the purpose of, in any manner, changing, distorting, or disturbing the
auditory, visual, or mental processes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be intentionally under the
influence of any toxic vapors.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in possession of any toxic
vapors or substances containing toxic vapors under circumstances which evidence
a purpose by said minor to be "under" the influence of any such toxic vapors.
The term MINOR as it is used in this section shall mean any person under 19
years of age.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or offer for
sale, deliver, or give away to any other person any substance containing or
releasing toxic vapors, where the seller, offerer, deliverer, or donor knows or
has reason to believe that such substance will be used for the purpose of
inducing a condition of, or inducing symptoms of intoxication, elation,
euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration, paralysis,
stupefaction, or dulling of the senses of the nervous system, or for the
purpose of, in any manner, changing, distorting, or disturbing the auditory,
visual, or mental processes. This section shall not apply to the inhalation of
anesthesia for medical or dental purposes administered by a licensed heal care
professional.
   (E)   As used in this section, the phrase TOXIC VAPORS shall mean and
include any substance containing one or more of the following compounds, or the
vapors or products containing such compounds:
      (1)   Acetone;
      (2)   Amylacetate;
      (3)   Benzol or benzene;
      (4)   Butyl acetate;
      (5)   Butyl alcohol;
      (6)   Carbon tetrachloride;
      (7)   Chloroform;
      (8)   Cyclohexanone;
      (9)   Ethanol or ethyl alcohol;
      (10)   Ethyl acetate;
      (11)   Hexane;
      (12)   Isopropanol or isopropyl alcohol;
      (13)   Isopropyl acetate;
      (14)   Methyl "cellosolve" acetate;
      (15)   Menthyl ethyl ketone;
      (16)   Menthyl isobutyl ketone;
      (17)   Toluol or toluene;
      (18)   Trichloroethylene;
      (19)   Triorthoscresyl phosphate;
      (20)   Xylol or xylene;
      (21)   Any other solvent, material, substance, chemical, or combination
thereof having the property of releasing toxic vapors.
   (F)   The following shall serve as examples or common products containing
toxic vapor compounds: spray paint, model airplane glue, nonwater-soluble
household glue, nail polish remover, and paint thinner. These are examples
only, and are not meant to in anyway limit the possible products containing
toxic vapor compounds.
(Ord. 970, passed 11-19-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
§ 130.40 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons' place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the city's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 130.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. RS 29-4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 8-17-2010)
§ 130.42 PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided in §
130.99.
   (D)   Exceptions. This subchapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator's residence at that location.
(Ord. 2010-09, passed 8-17-2010)
WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 130.50 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his or her official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or
other fowling piece within the municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to any licensed shooting gallery or to officially sanctioned
public celebrations if the persons so discharging firearms have written
permission from the Governing Body.
(1972 Code, § 6-324) (Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Discharge of firearms, see Neb. RS 16-227
§ 130.51 SLINGSHOTS; AIR RIFLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air rifle, or
the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or under any
circumstances within the municipality.
(1972 Code, § 6-325) (Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 130.52 DISCHARGING FIREWORKS.
   Consumer fireworks may be discharged from June 25 through July 2 between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. and on July 3 and July 4 between the hours
of 10:00 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. and for the period of December 29 from 10:00 a.m.
to 10:00 p.m. and on December 30 from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. and on December
31 from 10:00 a.m. through 1:00 a.m. on January 1. It shall be unlawful to
discharge fireworks from 11:59 p.m. on July 4 to 10:00 a.m. on December 29 of
that year and from 1:00 a.m. on January 1 of the following year to 10:00 a.m.
on June 25 of that year.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 130.53 FIREWORKS VENDORS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks, of
any description whatsoever, other than consumer fireworks at retail as defined
by Nebraska Statutes; provided, that all consumer fireworks may be sold only
between June 24 and July 5 and between December 28 and January 1 of each year;
provided, that fireworks of any description are permissible for purposes of
public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the Governing Body, and further
provided that the vendor shall secure a license prior to the sales. Application
shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk upon forms supplied by the municipality
requesting the information and documents as the Governing Body may deem
necessary as to whether to grant the license. Upon the determination to grant
the license, the Governing Body shall direct the Municipal Clerk to collect the
appropriate fee and issue the license. Any license so issued may be revoked at
any time by the Governing Body upon proper notice and hearing, if one is
requested by the licensee. No fireworks shall be sold in the Dwelling District
(R) of the City of Schuyler.
   (B)   The following regulation shall apply to the premises from which
fireworks shall be sold, to wit:
The following commercially made signs, with at least four inches by one-half
inch wide block lettering of permanent design of black against white background
shall be installed on all four sides of the structure from which fireworks are
to be sold. Said signs shall state:
      (1)   FIREWORKS/NO SMOKING WITHIN 50 FEET;
      (2)   NO FIREWORKS DISCHARGED WITHIN 300 FEET;
      (3)   NO PARKING WITHIN 12 FEET;
      (4)   FIREWORK DISCHARGE IS ONLY PERMITTED IN THE CITY:
         (a)   JUNE 25 - JULY 2 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
         (b)   JULY 3 AND JULY 4 10:00 a.m. - 11:59 p.m.
         (c)   DECEMBER 29 10:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.
         (d)   DECEMBER 30 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
         (e)   DECEMBER 31 10:00 a.m. - JANUARY 1 1:00 a.m.
   (C)   A commercially made sign with an image for (i) no smoking and (ii) no
explosions shall be displayed at each entrance of any structure from which
fireworks as to be sold.
(1972 Code, § 10-439) (Ord. 574, passed 7-5-1977; Ord. 2010-14, passed 12-21-
2010; Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023) Penalty, see § 113.99
Statutory reference:
   Explosives; fireworks; regulation, see Neb. RS 16-227
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penal provision. Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter set forth at full
length herein, or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500
plus liquidation fees for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every 24 hours of the failure to comply.
(1972 Code, § 6-701)
   (B)   Gambling equipment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter with reference to gambling, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not less than $10 nor more than $500; and, as part of the judgment of
conviction, all gambling equipment and paraphernalia seized and exhibited in
court, shall be ordered confiscated and destroyed.
(1972 Code, § 6-702)
   (C)   Work on streets by prisoners. In case prisoners committed to the
municipal jail are ordered to work upon the streets, alleys, and common grounds
of the municipality, or elsewhere, the jailer shall deliver them from day to
day, together with their warrants of commitment, to the person having charge of
the work to be done, and may deputize the person to hold the prisoners at work
as in the jail of the municipality. The municipal jail is hereby declared to
extend to any street or other place designated by the Mayor and Council or
Chief of Police for the employment of prisoners; and any prisoner breaking away
from the person in charge of him or her while at work, or affecting an escape
while at work, shall be liable in the same manner as for breaking jail. No
prisoner shall be required to perform the labor above described if the
municipal physician certifies that the prisoner’s health will be endangered in
so doing. Should the prisoner refuse to perform the work and the Municipal
Physician shall refuse to issue the certificate mentioned above, the prisoner
may be confined on bread and water diet, for the intervals as the Police
Magistrate shall prescribe, until the time as he or she shall be willing to
work, or his or her sentence shall expire.
(1972 Code, § 6-703)
   (D)   (1)   Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of §
130.34 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined an amount not exceeding $500. Each day a violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as a separate offense.
      (2)   Additional remedy; injunction. The Health Officer or a police
officer of the City of Schuyler shall take such action as necessary and legal
to enforce the provisions of §
130.34. As an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any device,
instrument, vehicles, or machinery in violation of any provisions of §
130.34 and which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal
sensitiveness or which endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of
residents in the area shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public nuisance
and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. No provision of §
130.34 shall be construed to impair any common law or statutory cause of
action, or legal remedy therefrom, of any person for injury or damage arising
from any violation of this ordinance or from other law.
(Ord. 687, passed 7-20-1982; Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 2008-08, passed
8-5-2008)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MUNICIPAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CHAPTER 150: MUNICIPAL BUILDING DEPARTMENT
Section
   
150.01   Powers
   
150.02   Unsafe buildings
   
150.03   Violation
   
150.04   Permits required
   
150.05   Plans and specifications
   
150.06   Building permit schedule and fees
   
150.07   Inspection
   
150.08   Special inspectors
   
150.09   Enclosure of pool
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 POWERS.
   The Building Department shall be under the jurisdiction of the Building
Inspector. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to enforce
all the provision of this code and the Building Code. For that purpose, he or
she shall have the powers of a police officer. In accordance with the procedure
and with the approval of the Governing Body, the Building Inspector may appoint
the number of officers, inspectors, assistants, and other employees as shall be
authorized from time to time. He or she may deputize the employees as may be
necessary to carry out the functions of the Building Department. Upon
presentation of proper credentials, the Building Inspector or his or her duly
authorized representatives may enter at any reasonable time any building,
structure, or premise in the municipality to perform any duty imposed upon him
or her by this code. Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the
laws of this municipality, the Building Inspector may order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any persons engaged in doing or causing the work to
be done, and any such person shall forthwith stop work until authorized by the
Building Inspector to proceed with the work. Whenever any structure is being
used contrary to the provisions of this code or the Building Code, the Building
Inspector may order the use discontinued and the structure, or portion thereof,
vacated by notice served on any person causing the use to be continued. The
person shall discontinue the use within ten days after receipt of the notice to
make the structure, or portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this
code, except as otherwise hereinafter provided. The Building Inspector or any
employee acting in good faith and without malice for the municipality in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself
liable personally and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her
duties. Any suit brought against the Building Inspector or an employee because
of the act or omission performed by him or her in the enforcement of any
provisions of this code or the Building Code, shall be defended by the Legal
Department until final termination of the proceedings. The Building Inspector
may request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary in the discharge of
his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the
municipality.
(1972 Code, § 3-901)
§ 150.02 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe or not provided
with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or which are otherwise
dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use constitute a
hazard to safety, health, or public welfare by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment are unsafe buildings.
All the unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall
be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal. The Building
Inspector shall examine or cause to be examined every building or structure or
portion thereof reported as dangerous or damaged, and, if such is found to be
an unsafe building, the Building Inspector shall give to the owner of the
building or structure written notice stating the defects thereof. This notice
may require the owner of person in charge of the building or premise to
commence within 48 hours either the required repairs or improvements or
demolition and removal of the building or structure or portions thereof, and
all the work shall be completed within 90 days from date of notice unless
otherwise stipulated by the Building Inspector. If necessary, the notice shall
also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to be vacated
forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and improvements are
completed, inspected, and approved by the Building Inspector. Proper service of
the notice shall be by personal service upon the owner of record if he or she
shall be found within the city limits. If he or she is not found within the
city limits, the service may be made upon the owner by registered mail or
certified mail, provided that is the notice is by registered mail or certified
mail, the designated period within which the owner of person in charge is
required to comply with the order of the Building Inspector shall begin as of
the date he or she receives the notice. The Building Inspector shall cause to
be posted at each entrance to the building a notice to read:
“DO NOT ENTER, UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
Building Department
City of Schuyler”
The notice shall remain posted until the required repair, demolition, or
removal is completed. The notice shall not be removed without written
permission of the Building Inspector and no person shall enter the building
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or of demolishing the
building. In case the owner shall fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with the
notice to repair, rehabilitate, or demolish and remove the building or
structure or portion thereof, the Governing Body may order the owner of the
building prosecuted as a violator of the provisions of this code and may order
the Building Inspector to proceed with the work specified in the notice. A
statement of the cost of the work shall be transmitted to the Governing Body
who shall cause the same to be paid and levied as a special assessment against
the property. Costs incurred in the event the owner fails to repair or remove
the building shall be paid out of the municipal treasury. The costs shall be
charged to the owner of the premise involved as a special assessment on the
land on which the building or structure is located and shall be collected in
the manner provided for special assessments.
(1972 Code, § 3-902) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or
maintain any building or structure in the municipality or cause the same to be
done contrary to or in violation of any provisions of this code or the Building
Code. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation is committed, continued, or permitted.
(1972 Code, § 3-903) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move,
improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or structure within the
municipality or within the municipality’s two-mile zoning jurisdiction outside
its corporate limits, or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a
separate building permit for each building or structure from the Building
Inspector.
   (B)   Specifically excepted from this requirement is land zoned General
Industrial District (GI) lying outside the municipality’s corporate limits, but
within the two-mile zoning jurisdiction.
   (C)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every application
shall include:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner of the property;
      (2)   Name and address of the applicant, if different than the owner;
      (3)   Name of prime contractor for the project, if there is one;
      (4)   Description of the land upon which the proposed work is to be done.
The description should be by legal description and street address, or if
acceptable to the Building Inspector, by a similar description that will
readily identify the location of the proposed building or work;
      (5)   Size, nature, and intended use of the proposed building or
improvement. This should include the use or occupancy of all parts of the
building or improvement;
      (6)   The approximate material costs of the improvement. Signature of the
property owner, or his or her authorized agent. Any signature by an authorized
agent may require evidence of the authority to sign; and
      (7)   Such other information as may reasonably be required by the
Building Inspector.
   (D)   Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by one set of
plans. The required set of plans shall be waived by the Building Inspector
where a building or structure is located in AG Agricultural District and if the
building or structure is being used primarily for agricultural purposes. On new
buildings or structures, or the remodeling or repairing thereof, which provides
for the employment, housing, or assembly of 20 or more persons or covers over
5,000 square feet of ground, and the construction cost thereof is $20,000 or
more, the plans and specifications shall be designed and prepared by an
engineer or architect licensed by the State of Nebraska to practice as such.
Plans need not be submitted for minor work, when permitted by the Building
Inspector.
   (E)   No building permit for new construction or major remodeling shall be
issued until five days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, after the
application in its completed form as required by this section has been on file
in the office of the Municipal Clerk; provided, however, the Building Inspector
may waive the waiting period in case of an emergency requiring immediate
protection of the property.
   (F)   Except as otherwise stated herein, no building permit shall be
required if the estimated costs of the improvement is $2,000 or less, unless
structural alterations to an existing building is to be done. No building
permit shall be required, regardless of the costs, for routine, periodic
maintenance where no upgrade to the building or structure results. This would
include, but not necessarily be limited to, painting; reroofing or reshingling
where the same quality, or lesser quality, materials are used; or any other
repair or maintenance where the quality of materials used are essentially the
same as those being replaced.
   (G)   Application for building permit of a new residence within R-1, R-2 and
R-3 zones within the city shall require public sidewalks in accordance with §
150.05(A), except as otherwise provided in subdivision agreements pursuant to
specific approval of a subdivision by the governing body of the city.
(1972 Code, § 3-904) (Ord. 535, passed 2-3-1976; Ord. 566, passed 6-7-1977;
Ord. 733, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 810, passed 1-21-1992; Ord. 865, passed 5-7-
1996; Ord. 929, passed 10-3-2000; Ord. 2005-12, passed 8-2-2005; Ord. 2012-07,
passed 7-3-2012) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Plans shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or cloth and
shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work
proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of the
Building Code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations. Plans
shall include a plot plan showing the location of the proposed building and of
every existing building on the property. In lieu of detailed specifications,
the Building Inspector may approve references on the plans to a specific
section or part of the Building Code or other ordinances or laws. Computations,
stress diagrams, and other data sufficient to show the correctness of the
plans, shall be submitted when required by the Building Inspector. Plans for
all new residences within the R-l, R-2, and R-3 zones within the corporate
limits of the city shall require sidewalks conforming with the provisions of
the Building Code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of
the city, except as otherwise provided in subdivision agreements pursuant to
specific approval of a subdivision by the governing body of the city.
   (B)   Every permit issued by the Building Inspector shall be for a nine-
month period and shall expire by limitation and become null and void, if the
building or work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned any time
after the work is commenced for a period of 90 days. Before the work can be
recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained to do so, and the fee
therefor shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for the work;
provided, no changes have been made or will be made in the original plans and
specifications for the work; and provided further, that the suspension of
abandonment has not exceeded one year. The Building Inspector may, in writing,
suspend or revoke a permit issued under provisions of this code whenever the
permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or
in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this
code.
(1972 Code, § 3-905) (Am. Ord. 2012-07, passed 7-3-2012) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 BUILDING PERMIT SCHEDULE AND FEES.
   For new construction, building permit fees shall be determined by the most
recent building permit fee schedule. There will be certain flat rate fees
including but not limited to fence permit, siding permit and demolition permit.
Building permit calculations shall be based upon the estimated project
construction costs as determined by the building inspector using the most
current fee schedule adopted by the governing body of the city, or such fees
will be based upon the contractor's estimated cost, whichever is greater. All
permit fees are calculated by using average building and construction rates per
square foot or that amount determined by contractor's estimate, whichever is
greater. The fee schedule may be amended by resolution by the governing body
and the most recent adopted building permit fee schedule shall be on file at
the office of the building inspector and municipal clerk.
(1972 Code, § 3-906) (Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-7-2019)
§ 150.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the Building Inspector and certain types of
construction shall have continuous inspection by special inspectors. Work
requiring a building permit shall not be commenced until the permit holder or
his or her agent shall have posted an inspection record card in a conspicuous
place on the front premise and in the position as to allow the Building
Inspector conveniently to make the required entries thereon regarding
inspection of the work. This card shall be maintained in the position by the
permit holder until the certificate of occupancy has been issued.
   (B)   No work shall be done on any part of the building or structure beyond
the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the
written approval of the Building Inspector. The written approval shall be given
only after an inspection shall have been made of each successive step in the
construction. A survey of the lot may be required by the Building Inspector to
verify compliance of the structure with approved plans. There shall be a final
inspection and approval on all buildings when completed and ready for
occupancy.
   (C)   No reinforcing steel or structural framework of any part of any
building or structure shall be covered or concealed in any manner whatever
without first obtaining the approval of the Building Inspector.
   (D)   The Building Inspector upon notification from the permit holder or his
or her agent shall make the following inspections and shall either approve that
portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the permit holder or
his or her agent wherein the same fail to comply with Building Code:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
forms erected and when all materials for the foundation are delivered on the
job. Where concrete from a central mixing plant (commonly termed “transit
mixed”) is to be used, materials need not be on the job;
      (2)   Frame inspection. To be made after the roof, all framing,
fireblocking, and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are
complete;
      (3)   Final inspection. To be made after building is completed and ready
for occupancy; and
      (4)   Other inspections. In addition to the called inspections specified
above, the Building Inspector may make any other inspections of any
construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the Building
Code and other laws which are enforced by the Building Department.
(1972 Code, § 3-907) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 SPECIAL INSPECTORS.
   (A)   In addition to the inspections to be made, the owner or his or her
agent shall employ a special inspector who shall be present at all times during
construction on the following types of work:
      (1)   Concrete. On concrete work when the design is based on (f ’ m ) in
excess of 2,000 pounds;
      (2)   Masonry. On reinforced masonry work when the design is based on a
strength of masonry (f ’ m ) in excess of 1,000 pounds per square inch. On all
other types of masonry work when the design is based on unit stresses in excess
of 50% of those allowed;
      (3)   Welding. On all structural welding;
      (4)   Reinforced gypsum. When cast-in-place reinforced gypsum is being
mixed or deposited; and
      (5)   Special cases. On special construction work involving unusual
hazards or requiring constant inspection.
   (B)   The Building Inspector may waive the requirements for the employment
of a special inspector if he or she finds that the construction work is such
that no unusual hazard exists.
   (C)   All special inspectors shall be qualified persons approved by the
Building Inspector. The special inspector shall furnish continuous inspection
on the construction and work requiring his or her employment. He or she shall
report to the Building Inspector in writing, noting all Building Code
violations and other information as required.
(1972 Code, § 3-908)
§ 150.09 ENCLOSURE OF POOL.
   (A)   Every outdoor private, residential, or family pool shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or wall not less than four feet in height which shall be
so constructed as not to have openings, holes, or gaps larger than four inches
in any dimensions except for doors and gates; and if a picket fence is erected
or maintained the horizontal dimension shall not exceed four inches. A dwelling
or accessory building may be used as part of the enclosure. No part of the pool
shall constitute a part of the fence.
   (B)   All fences enclosing private, residential, or family pools shall be
constructed to conform to the requirements of the city Building Code
regulations.
   (C)   All gates or doors opening through the enclosure shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device for keeping the gate or door
securely closed at all times, except that the door of the dwelling which forms
part of the enclosure need not be so equipped.
   (D)   The requirement shall be applicable to all new family pools
hereinafter constructed, other than indoor pools, and shall apply to all
existing pools which have a minimum depth of 18 inches of water. No person in
possession of land within the city or within its zoning jurisdiction either as
owner, purchaser, lessee, tenant, or licensee, upon which is situated a family
pool having a depth of 18 inches or more shall fail to provide and maintain the
fence or wall as herein provided.
   (E)   No fence shall be required for a pool which is placed above the ground
and the sides of the pool are over four feet in height. All ladders or
entrances to the pool shall be in a raised or locked position when the pool is
not in use.
(1972 Code, § 3-909) (Ord. 598, passed 4-18-1978) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(1972 Code, § 3-1101) (Ord. 905, passed 11-2-1999)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Building Code; adopted by reference
   
151.02   Plumbing Code; adopted by reference
   
151.03   Electrical Code; adopted by reference
   
151.04   Mechanical Code; adopted by reference
   
151.05   Gas Code; adopted by reference
   
151.06   Adoption of the 2018 International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.07   Amendments, additions and deletions to 2018 International Property
Maintenance Code
   
151.08   Establishment of Board of Appeals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2012 International Building Code and 2012 International Residential
Building Code for the city, is here adopted and incorporated herein by this
reference as through printed in full herein. A copy of the 2012 International
Building Code and the 2012 International Residential Building Code is on file
in the office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection during
normal business hours.
(Neb. RS 18-132) (1972 Code, § 9-101) (Ord. 660, passed 7-21-1981; Ord. 801,
passed 7-2-1991; Ord. 984, passed 1-6-2004; Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-3-2015; Ord.
2019-02, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 151.02 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2012 International Plumbing Code for the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by this reference as though printed in
full herein. A copy of the 2012 International Plumbing Code is on file in the
office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
(Neb. RS 18-132) (1972 Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 668, passed 8-4-1981; Ord. 802,
passed 7-2-1991; Ord. 984, passed 1-6-2004; Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.03 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2011 National Electric Code for the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by this reference as though printed in
full herein. A copy of the 2011 National Electric Code is on file in the office
of the City Clerk and available for public inspection during normal business
hours.
(Neb. RS 18-132) (1972 Code, § 9-301) (Ord. 663, passed 7-21-1981; Ord. 803,
passed 7-2-1991; Ord. 829, passed 5-18-1993; Ord. 984, passed 1-6-2004; Ord.
2015-01, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.04 MECHANICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2012 International Mechanical Code for the City of Schuyler, Nebraska,
is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by this reference as though printed
in full herein. A copy of the 2012 International Mechanical Code is on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
(1972 Code, § 9-401) (Ord. 984, passed 1-6-2004; Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.05 GAS CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The 2012 International Fuel Gas Code for the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by this reference as though printed in
full herein. A copy of the 2012 International Fuel Gas Code is on file in the
office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
(Neb. RS 18-132) (1972 Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 662, passed 7-21-1981; Ord. 804,
passed 7-2-1991; Ord. 984, passed 1-6-2004; Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 151.06 ADOPTION OF THE 2018 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition as established by
the International Code Council, at least one copy of the book is filed in the
office of the City Clerk and the same is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Schuyler, in the State of Nebraska, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures, by providing the standards for supplied utilities
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collections of fees therefore, and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Property
Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this legislation, with additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, as prescribed in §
151.07 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 151.07 AMENDMENTS, ADDITIONS, AND DELETIONS TO 2018 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY
MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Section 101.1 is amended to read:
      Title. These regulations shall be known as the International Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Schuyler, herein referred to as 'this code'.
   (B)   Section 101.2 is amended to read:
      Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential structures and nonresidential structures and all existing property
and premises and constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises,
property, structures, equipment, and facilities for light, ventilation, space,
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from
fire and other hazards, and for safe, sanitary, and adequate maintenance; the
responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing
structures and premises, and for administration, enforcement, and penalties.
The jurisdiction will include the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, corporation
limits.
   (C)   Section 102.3 is amended to read:
      Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the International Building Code, International
Energy Conservation Code, International Fire Code, international Residential
Code, International Plumbing Code, NFPA 70, and all other codes that are or
that may be adopted by the City of Schuyler. Nothing in this code shall be
construed to cancel, modify, or set aside any provision of the Schuyler
Municipal Zoning Code.
   (D)   Section 102.7 is amended to read:
      Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this code shall be those adopted by the City of Schuyler and considered part of
the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference
as further regulated in Sections 102.7.1 and 102.7.2.
      Exception: Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the
conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the
listing shall apply.
   (E)   Section 102.10 is amended to read:
      Other laws. Provisions of this code should not be deemed to nullify any
provisions of local, state or federal law, except those referenced sections of
the Schuyler Municipal Code or Zoning Code as specifically referenced in this
section.
   (F)   Section 103.2 is amended to read:
      Appointments. The code official shall be the person as defined in Section
202 of this code.
   (G)   Section 103.4 is amended to read:
      Liability. The code official, City Administrator, any other employee or
agent of the City of Schuyler charged with or delegated with the enforcement of
this code, while acting for the City of Schuyler, in good faith and without
malice in the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent
law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered liable personally, and is
hereby relieved from all liability personally, and is hereby relieved from all
personal liability for any damage accruing to the persons or property as a
result of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of
official duties. Any suit instituted against said individuals because of an act
performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and
under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal representative
of the City of Schuyler until the final termination of the proceedings. Said
person shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit, or proceeding that is
instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
   (H)   Section 103.5 is amended to read:
      Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the department in
carrying out its responsibilities under this code will be assessed to reimburse
the City of Schuyler for expenses incurred and/or as set by Resolution.
   (I)   Section 104.5 is amended to read:
      Notices and orders. The code official shall issue all necessary notices
or orders to insure compliance with this code, and shall have the authority to
authorize Schuyler Police Officers to issue citations for violations of such
notices and orders in compliance with this code.
   (J)   Section 106.3 is amended to read:
      Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice of
violation or order served in accordance with Section 107 shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense.
If the notice of violation is not complied with, the code official shall
institute the appropriate proceeding administratively, at law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any
action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
become a lien upon such real estate. However, any court ordered fines shall be
paid according to law or court orders.
   (K)   Section 106.4 is amended to read:
      Violation penalties. Any person upon whom a duty is placed by the
provisions of this title who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to perform such
duty, or who shall violate a provision of this title shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not to
exceed $500, except that each person so convicted shall be fined in a sum of
not less than $200 for the first offense, not less than $300 for a second
offense, and not less than $400 for the third offense and each offense
thereafter. The penalty herein provided shall be cumulative with and in
addition to the revocation, cancellation, or forfeiture of any license, permit,
or right elsewhere provided for violation thereof or as provided by law. Each
day that a violation of this title continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (L)   Section 107.2 is amended to read:
      Form. Such notice prescribed in section 107.1 shall be in accordance with
all of the following:
      1.   Be in writing.
      2.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
      3.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued.
      4.   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the property, dwelling unit, or
structure into compliance with the provision of this code.
      5.   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal.
      6.   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
Section 106.3.
   (M)   Section 108.1.1 is amended to read:
      Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire or other life-threatening events, or
because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty construction or unstable
foundation, that partial or complete collapse is possible.
   (N)   Section 108.1.3 is amended to read:
      Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, is a nuisance, or lacks ventilation, illumination, or heating
facilities or other essential requirements of this code, or the location of the
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the structure or to the
public. Whenever the health officer finds that such structure, because of the
degree to which the structure is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, is
unsanitaiy, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and contamination, or is a
nuisance, such structure shall be unfit for human occupancy and the health
officer shall make such finding to the code official.
   (O)   Section 110.1 is amended to read:
      General. The code official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which in the code official's judgment after
review is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove such structure, or if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repair, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or to board up and
hold for future repair or to demolish and remove at the owners option, or where
there has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure for a period
of more than two years, the code official shall order the owner to demolish and
remove such structure, or board up until future repair. Boarding the building
up for future repair shall not extend beyond one year, unless approved by the
building official/or code official. In the event the structure and premises
upon which the structure is located are in separate ownership, then both the
owner of the structure and the owner of the premises shall be responsible for
said removal.
   (P)   Section 110.3 is amended to read:
      Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition within the time prescribed, the code official may cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (Q)   Section 111.1 is amended to read:
      Application for appeal to City Administrator. Any person directly
affected by a decision of the code official or a notice or order issued under
this code shall have the right to appeal to the City Administrator, provided
that a written application of appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the
decision, notice or order was served. An application of appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by
other means.
   (R)   Section 111.1.1 is added:
      Appeal hearing with City Administrator. When an appeal to the City
Administrator has been properly and timely requested, the City Administrator
shall:
      l.   Schedule a hearing within five working days of receipt of the
hearing request.
         a.   Written notice of the hearing date and time shall be provided to
the owner and occupant (if known).
         b.   The hearing may be continued to a later time in cases where
additional information is needed, as determined by the City Administrator.
      2.   Review all report(s), violation notice(s) and other relevant
information presented.
      3.   Conduct a hearing.
         a.   At the hearing, the owner, occupant, and/or his agent shall be
given the opportunity to present information and evidence relevant to the
violation notice, reports, or orders.
         b.   The Code Official or his designated representative also shall be
given the opportunity to present information and evidence relevant to the
violation notice, reports, or orders.
         c.   The hearing may be conducted in an informal manner which shall be
flexible enough for the City Administrator to consider evidence, including
letters, affidavits, report(s), violation notice(s), and other relevant
information. Court rules of evidence or procedure shall not apply.
      4.   Render a written order within five calendar days of the hearing.
         a.   In that decision the City Administrator shall determine if from
the testimony and evidence offered whether or not the building, structure, or
property in question is in violation of this code.
         b.   Should a violation of this code be found, the City Administrator
shall order the owner, occupant, or other persons having an interest in the
building, structure, or property to repair, alter or demolish the building in
accordance with the terms listed in said order within a reasonable amount of
time. Said reasonable amount of time must be longer than the time frame allowed
for the filing of an application for appeal to the Board of Appeals.
   (S)   Section 111.1.1.1 is added:
      Administration of City Administrator's order. The code official shall
take action in accordance with the decision of the City Administrator following
the expiration of any and all applicable appeal periods and the expiration of
the reasonable time determination in the City Administrator's order.
   (T)   Section 111.1.2 is added:
      Application for appeal to Board of Appeals. Any person directly affected
by a decision, finding of or by an order of the City Administrator issued under
this code shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Appeals, provided that
a written application of appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the City
Administrator's decision or order was served. An application of appeal shall be
based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by
other means. In the rare situation where the City Administrator has acted as
the code official, any person directly affected by a decision of the City
Administrator or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right
to appeal directly to the Board of Appeals as set forth in Section 111 of this
code. Court rules of evidence or procedures shall not apply.
   (U)   Section 111.1.3 is added:
      Effect of failure to appeal. Failure of any person to file an appeal
(either to the City Administrator or to the Board of Appeals) shall constitute
a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and adjudication of the
notice and order or to any portion thereof.
   (V)   Section 111.2.5 is amended to read:
      Compensation of members. Compensation of members shall be determined by
Resolution of the City Council of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, but
compensation is not required.
   (W)   Section 111.6.2 is amended to read:
      Appeal of Board's decision. The decision of the Board of Appeals may be
appealed to the City Council.
   (X)   Section 111.6.3 is added:
      Administration. The code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the Board of Appeals following the expiration
of any and all applicable periods concerning the decision of the Board of
Appeals.
   (Y)   Section 111.7 is amended to read:
      Application for appeal to City Council. Any person directly affected by a
decision, finding or order of the Board of Appeals issued under this code shall
have the right to appeal to the City Council, provided that a written
application of appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision,
notice, or order was served. An application of appeal shall be based on a claim
that the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have
been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply,
or the requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means.
   (Z)   Section 111.7.1 is added:
      Scope of hearing on appeal in front of the City Council. Only those
matters or issues specifically raised by the appellant regarding the decision
of the Board of Appeals shall be considered in the hearing of the appeal in
front of the City Council.
   (AA)   Section 111.7.2 is added:
      Procedure for hearing on appeal to the City Council. The procedures for
hearings conducted in front of the City Council shall be as follows:
      1.   The hearing in front of the City Council shall take place at a date
when the City Council normally meets within 30 days of the date of appellant's
proper filing of such appeals application.
      2.   Hearings will be conducted in accordance with Rules of the City
Council of Schuyler, Nebraska.
      3.   The Mayor shall preside and lead the hearing and discussion. Council
members are entitled to ask questions of the appellant, the code official, the
City Administrator, or their duly authorized representatives. Court rules of
evidence or procedure shall not apply.
      4.   A Board of Appeals decision may only be overturned or modified by a
majority vote of the members of the City Council. The Mayor may only vote when
his or her vote will provide the additional vote required to create a number of
votes equal to the majority of the number of members elected to the City
Council, and the Mayor shall, for the purposes of such vote, be deemed to be a
member of the Council.
   (BB)   Section 111.8 is amended to read:
      Court Review. Appeal of the City Council's decision shall be filed in
accordance with state law.
   (CC)   Section 111.9 is added:
      Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice, findings, and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement and of the notice and order
until the appeal is heard at the appropriate level. Should an appeal be taken
to the Courts, there is no stay of enforcement unless the Court authorizes an
injunction.
   (DD)   Section 112.4 is amended to read:
      Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and liable to a fine of not less than $200 or more than $500.
   (EE)   Section 201.3 is amended to read:
      Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
but are defined in other codes that are adopted, or which may later be adopted,
by the City of Schuyler, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
stated in those codes.
   (FF)   Section 202 only the following definitions are amended to read (all
other definitions in Section 202 of the 2018 International Property Maintenance
Code which are not listed below shall remain as defined):
      [A]   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration
and enforcement of this code, or any duly authorized representative. The code
official shall be the Schuyler Code Enforcement Officer appointed by the Mayor
with the consent of the City Council and should that position be vacant, then
the code official shall be the Building Inspector for the City of Schuyler, or
any duly authorized representative of that person. Should the position of the
Building Inspector also be vacant, the code official shall be the acting City
Administrator for the City of Schuyler, or any duly authorized representative
of that person.
      [B]   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit and/or structure providing complete,
independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
      [C]   STRUCTURE. That which is built, manufactured, or constructed, which
may be affixed or non-affixed to the premises or property, or a portion
thereof.
   (GG)   Section 301.2 is amended to read:
      Responsibility. The owner of the premises or property shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner-
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Owners and occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or
housekeeping unit are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary, and safe
condition that part of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit, or
premises which they occupy and control.
   (HH)   Section 302.4 is amended to read:
      Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
weeds or plant growth in excess of ten (10) inches. All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided, however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens.
      Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with Section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
   (II)   Section 302.9 is amended to read:
      Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore such surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair. This section is not intended to
replace but to be authority in addition to Schuyler Municipal Code §§ 94.050 et
seq. dealing with graffiti.
   (JJ)   Section 303 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
   (KK)   Section 304.14 is amended to read:
      Insect screens. During the period from April 1st to October 31st every
year, every door, window, and other outside opening required for ventilation of
habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service area, or any areas where
products to be included or utilized in food for human consumption are
processed, manufactured, packaged, or stored shall be supplied with approved
tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and
every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing device in
good working condition.
      Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such
as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
   (LL)   Section 502.5 is amended to read:
      Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be maintained in
a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the International
Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and
use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of
the premises.
   (MM)   Section 505.1 is amended to read:
      General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet, or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs, and showers shall be supplied with
hot or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the International
Plumbing Code.
   (NN)   Section 602.2 is amended to read:
      Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms based on the outdoor winter design
temperature of -3°F (-19°C) Cooking appliances shall not be used, nor shall
portable unvented fuel-burning space heaters be used, as a means to provide
required heating.
      Exception: In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F
(-1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (OO)   Section 602.3 is amended to read:
      Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases,
or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed
or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during
the period from September 1st to May 31st every year to maintain a minimum
temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
      Exceptions:
      1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be -3°F (-19°C).
      2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C)
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (PP)   Section 602.4 is deleted.
(Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations
made by the Building Official/Code Official relative to the application and
interpretation of the Building Code and International Property Maintenance Code
currently adopted by the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, there shall be and is
hereby created a Board of Appeals consisting of five members who are qualified
by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to building
construction, and who are not employees of the jurisdiction. The Building
Official/Code Official shall be an ex-officio member of, and shall act as
secretary to the Board, but shall have no vote on any matter before the Board.
Each member of the Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council, and shall hold office for a three-year term and
is removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any
member whose term becomes vacant. The initial members of the Board of Appeals
shall have staggered terms with two members being appointed to serve three
years, two members to serve two years and one member to serve one year. The
Board shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business, and shall
render all decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate
copy to the Building Official/Code Official. The City Council may determine any
compensation to the Board members by separate resolution, and until the
resolution is passed, no compensation shall be paid to the Board members.
(Ord. 2021-06, passed 8-3-2021)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of the failure
to comply.
(1972 Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 984, passed 1-6-2004)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT
Section
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Methods used to analyze flood hazards
   
152.04   Statement of purpose
   
152.05   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.06   The Enforcement Officer
   
152.07   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.08   Appeal
   
152.09   Permit required
   
152.10   Administration
   
152.11   Application for permit
   
152.12   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.13   Standards for flood plain development
   
152.14   Flood Fringe Overlay District (Including AO and AH Zones)
   
152.15   Standards for the Flood Fringe Overlay District
   
152.16   Floodway Overlay District
   
152.17   Variance procedures
   
152.18   Conditions for variances
   
152.19   Nonconforming use
   
152.20   Amendments
   
152.21   Definitions
   
152.22   Passage and approval
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare. The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001
to 31-1022, as amended, has further assigned the responsibility to adopt,
administer, and enforce flood plain management regulations to the county, city
or village with zoning jurisdiction over the flood-prone area. Therefore, the
City Council of the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, ordains as follows.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in flood plains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities;
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.03 METHODS USED TO ANALYZE FLOOD HAZARDS.
   This chapter uses a reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which
consists of a series of interrelated steps.
   (A)   Selection of a regulatory flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated, and the depth of inundation. The
base flood is selected for this chapter. It is representative of large floods
which are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this chapter. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one
year, as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administration's Flood Insurance
Study, and illustrative materials dated April 16, 2014, as amended.
   (B)   Calculation of water surface profiles based on a hydraulic engineering
analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas to convey the
base flood.
   (C)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point.
   (D)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no obstruction
is permitted which would cause any water surface increase along the floodway
profile.
   (E)   Delineation of floodway fringe, i.e., that area outside the floodway
encroachment lines, but which still is subject to inundation by the base flood.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.04 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
152.02 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard.
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.05 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) Index # 31037CIND0A dated
April 5, 2016, as numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO and All
Zones) and within the Zoning Districts FW and FF established in §
152.12. In all areas covered by this chapter no development shall be permitted
except upon the issuance of a flood plain permit to develop, granted by the
city governing body, or its duly designated representative under such
safeguards and restrictions as the city governing body, or the designated
representative may reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the
general welfare, health of the inhabitants of the community and where
specifically noted in §§
152.13,
152.14  and
152.15.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.06 THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Clerk, City Administrator or Building Inspector of the city, which
individual has certified flood plain manager credentials, whether there be one
or more, is hereby designated jointly as the community's duly designated
enforcement officers under this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016; Ord. 2020-06, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.07 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Overlay Districts
shall be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map or Floodway Map. Where interpretation is needed to the
exact location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the official
zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions, the Enforcement Officer shall make
the necessary interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is
contested, the Board of Adjustment will resolve the dispute. The regulatory
flood elevation for the point in question shall be the governing factor in
locating the district boundary on the land. The person contesting the location
of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his
case to the Board of Adjustment and to submit his own technical evidence, if he
so desires.
   (B)   Compliance. Within identified special flood hazard areas of this
community, no development shall be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (C)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existent easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (D)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur on rare occasions or the flood height may be increased by man-made or
natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted by debris. This
chapter does not imply that areas outside floodway and flood fringe district
boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be free from
flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
   (F)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.08 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the Clerk
the applicant may apply for such permit or variance directly to the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.09 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any flood plain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for DEVELOPMENT as defined in §
152.21.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of the City Clerk shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter
have been satisfied.
      (2)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required.
      (3)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (5)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (6)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas.
      (7)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been floodproofed.
      (8)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure the City
Clerk shall be presented certification from a registered professional engineer
or architect.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.11 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a flood plain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the flood
plain development permit.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
      (6)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped flood
plain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: A Floodway
Overlay District (FW) and a Flood Fringe Overlay District (FF) as identified in
the Flood Insurance Study [and accompanying map(s)]. Within these districts all
uses not meeting the standards of this chapter and those standards of the
underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.13 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements and other development(s) including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered A zones (including AE,
AO, and AH zones) unless the conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A zones shall be subject to all development provisions
of §§
152.14  and
152.15. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the community shall
utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently available from
federal, state or other sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within special flood hazard areas unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any location as shown on the
Flood Insurance Study.
   (D)   New construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other developments
shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and on-site
waste disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination.
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages, and with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or floodproofed up
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (E)   Storage of material and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, be required to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivision) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser,
include within such proposals the base flood elevation.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.14 FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT (Including AO and AH Zones).
   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in §
152.16 shall be permitted in the Flood Fringe Overlay District. No use shall be
permitted in the district unless the standards of §
152.13 are met.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.15 STANDARDS FOR THE FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of residential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
one foot above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of non-
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, to be floodproofed so that below that level
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
division are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the City Clerk
as set forth in §
152.10(B)(7).
   (C)   Appurtenant structures used exclusively for storage of motor vehicles
and storage of other items readily removable in the event of a flood warning
may have their lowest floor below one foot above the base flood elevation
provided that the structure complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning;
      (3)   The floor area should not exceed 700 square feet;
      (4)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use within the
Flood Fringe Overlay District.
   (D)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be not higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (E)   Within AH zones adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes
shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (F)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      (2)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community's FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is at or above one foot above the base flood elevation; and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance
with the provisions of division (F)(1) above.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of division (F)(2) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one
foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)(1)
above.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood hazard
areas on the community's official map shall either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this chapter. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
   (H)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.05 are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply within AO Zones:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade
at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on the
community's FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy, Such certification
shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
152.10(B)(7).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016; Ord. 2020-06, passed 3-3-2020)
§ 152.16 FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Only uses having a low flood-damage potential and not
obstructing flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway District to the
extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
forestry.
      (2)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas.
      (3)   Non-residential areas such as loading areas, parking and airport
landing strips.
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife and nature preserves.
   (B)   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District. New structures for human
habitation are prohibited. All encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development must be prohibited unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that the development shall not result in any increase in water
surface elevations along the floodway profile during occurrence of the base
flood discharge. These uses are subject to the standards of §§
152.13 and
152.14 . In Zone A unnumbered, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any flood
elevation and floodway data available through federal, state or other sources
or §
152.13(F)(4), in meeting the standards of this section.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.17 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the city shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the City Clerk in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
19-912, as amended.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
         (a)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (b)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.18 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (B), (C), (D), (E), and (F)
below have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels along the floodway profile during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of a
community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.19 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the ordinance, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for six consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the City Clerk in writing of instances of nonconforming
uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period of six months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places, provided that the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.20 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973,
provided, however, that no such action may be taken until after a public
hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least
15 days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public
hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published in Title 44 of the
Code of Federal Regulations and the 1983 Nebraska Flood Plain Management Act.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the City Clerk's interpretation of any
provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January I, 1975, for FIRM'S effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the flood plain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area of the flood plain, outside of the floodway, that on
the average is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of flood occurrence in any one year).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the flood hazard boundaries and the
zones establishing insurance rates applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. See FLOODING.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of flood plain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For flood plain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the flood
plain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of flood plain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)] includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's flood plain management regulations.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.22 PASSAGE AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   This chapter (Ordinance 2016-01) is hereby passed and approved and any
other ordinance or section or resolution passed and approved prior to the
passage, approval and publication or posting of this chapter in conflict
herewith is hereby repealed.
   (B)   Effective date. This chapter shall take effect and be in full force
from and after its passage, approval and publication or posting as required by
law effective April 5, 2016.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in
the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action is as necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 4-5-2016)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s subdivision regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1972 Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 676, passed 11-3-1981; Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-21-
2006; Ord. 2007-02, passed 4-3-2007; Ord. 2007-4, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2018-
05, passed 1-16-2018)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning code is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(1972 Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 676, passed 11-3-1981; Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-21-
2006; Ord. 2007-02, passed 4-3-2007; Ord. 2007-4, passed 7-17-2007; Ord. 2017-
06, passed 9-19-2017; Ord. 2018-04, passed 1-16-2018; Ord. 2018-06, passed 5-
15-2018; Ord. 2018-14, passed 10-2-2018; Ord. 2018-17, 11-6-2018; Ord. 2018-18,
passed 11-6-2018; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-7-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-6-
2020; Ord. 2021-04, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-19-2022; Ord. 2022-
09, passed 7-19-2022)
CHAPTER 155: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
155.01   Adopted
§ 155.01 ADOPTED.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Plan for the City of Schuyler, Nebraska, as prepared by JEO
Consulting has been approved January 16, 2018 by motion. One copy of the
adopted Plan shall be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for
inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(1972 Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 2018-03, passed 1-16-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   TAXATION
      
V.   REAL ESTATE CONVEYANCES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
–   - -    Natural gas franchise granted to People’s Natural Gas Division. Codified in
             1972 Code, § 10-501.
–   - -    Telephone franchise granted to Northwestern Bell Telephone Company. Codified
             in 1972 Code, § 10-502.
2024- 7-16-  Natural gas franchise granted to Black Hills Nebraska Gas, LLC d/b/a Black
09    2024   Hills Energy.
            
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      - -         Contract with Loup Public Power District to purchase
                     electrical power. Codified in 1972 Code, § 10-503.
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
998   2-1-   City’s extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction extended from one mile beyond the
      2005   corporate limits to two miles.
999   2-1-   R-1 to GC, Jeff Gall
      2005
2005- 5-18-  R-1 to GC, Schuyler Lumber
10    2005
2005- 5-18-  AG to RR, Michael Madej
11    2005
2005- 12-20- R-1 to GC, Jerold Kracl
14    2005
2006- 7-18-  R-1 to R-3, Jim Mejstrik
04    2006
2009- 2-17-  AG to GI, Cargill
3     2009
2009- 4-7-   LC to GC, Egr, Gene
5     2009
2009- 6-16-  R-1 to R-2, Granville Homes
6     2009
2010- 7-6-   LI to GI, Schuyler Industrial Park
05    2010
2010- 8-7-   RR to LI, Schuyler Coop
08    2010
2010- 9-21-  AG to RR, Doris Ann Ahrens
11    2010
2011- 1-18-  AG to RR, Chad Dietrich
01    2011
2011- 5-3-   Annexation 33 acres, Schuyler Industrial Park
02    2011
2011- 9-20-  Annexation 76 acres, Northwest Schuyler
05    2011
2011- 10-18- AG to R-1, Schuyler Community Schools
07    2011
2011- 10-18- R-1 to R-2, Lot 10, BIKA Russell Addition, Schuyler Lumber
08    2011
2012- 7-7-   AG to GC, Dowd Industries
08    2012
2012- 11-6-  Annexation, Stoltenberg Property
14    2012
2013- 2-19-  AG to GC, Stoltenberg Property
04    2013
2013- 6-25-  Portion of East 16th Street, former Highway 30
07    2013
2013- 8-6-   AG to GC, Vomacka Property
09    2013
2013- 8-6-   R-1 to R-2, Lot 6, Blk 32, Clarkson 1st Addition, City of Schuyler, Ron Mundil
10    2013   owner
2017- 2-21-  R-1 to R-2, 506 E 9th Street, all of Lots 13, 14, and 15, Block 4, Hoxie’s
01    2017   Addition
2017- 5-16-  R-1 and CBD to GC, East 8 feet of Lot 22, and all of Lots 23 and 24, all in
03    2017   Block 96
2017- 9-19-  AG to R-1, Ski Lake Resort Area
05    2017
2017- 12-19- AG to GI, outside the city limits and within it’s two-mile zoning jurisdiction,
08    2017   NE ¼ of Section 17, T17N, R3E of the 6th P.M.
             GC to R-3, Lots 1-4 and street Block 9, Sumner Wrights Addition; Lots 1-4 and
2018- 7-3-   Former R.R. and W. ½ of vacated street Block 10 Sumner Wrights Addition; Lots
09    2018   1-2 adjacent vacated street and alley Block 15 Sumner Wrights Addition; and
             Lots 1- 2 and part of street and alley Block 16 Sumner Wrights Addition
2018- 12-18- AG to GI, tract of land located in SW quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North,
20    2018   Range 3 East
2019- 5-21-  R-1 to R-2, Lot 4 and W10' of Lot 3, Block 8, South Schuyler Addition
05    2019
2019- 5-21-  R-1 to R-2, Lots 24-26 and part of Alley, Block 6, Hoxies Addition
06    2019
2019- 6-18-  R-1 to R-2, W 72' of NW 1/4, Block 118, Clarkson 2nd Addition
07    2019
2019- 9-17-  AG to RR, South 300 ft. of the North 520.49 ft. of the East 275.88 ft. of the
09    2019   SE 1/4 of the SE 1/4 Section 16, Township 17 North, Range 3 East, containing
             1.90 acres more or less, which includes 0.23 acres for county road purposes
2019- 9-17-  R-1 to R-2, Lots 13-16, Block 45, Original town, 320 West 13th Street
10    2019
2020- 2-18-  AG to RR, the SE corner of the NE quarter of Section 14, Township 17 North,
04    2020   Range 3
2020- 2-18-  R-3 to GC, Lots 1, 2 and 3, all in the Water Tower Subdivision
05    2020
2020- 5-19-  R-1 to R-3 for a tract of land located in Block 13, of Clarkson and Dorsey's
07    2020   Subdivision
2020- 10-20- AG to RR, part of Accretion lands to fractional Section 27, Township 17 North,
12    2020   Range 3 East of Sixth P.M.
2021- 8-3-   AG to RR, part of the NE quarter of the SE quarter of Section 13, Township 17
03    2021   North, Range 3 East of the 6th P.M.
2022- 1-18-  AG to GC, the SW quarter of the NE quarter and the SE quarter of the NE
01    2022   quarter, all in Section 11, Township 17 North, Range 3 East of the sixth P.M.
2022- 12-20- GC to R-2, 132 feet West of the SE corner of Block 13, Clarkson and Dorsey's
14    2022   Subdivision, parts of Sections 10 and 11, Township 17 North, Range 3 East of
             the sixth P.M.
2022- 12-20- AG to RR, the SW quarter of the SW quarter of Section 36, Township 18 North,
15    2022   Range 3 East of the sixth P.M.
2023- 3-21-  R-1 to R-3, East 22 feet of Lot 7, and all of Lot 8, Block 10, Original Town
04    2023
2023- 7-18-  From GC to R-2, Lot 2, Mundil Addition
13    2023
2023- 9-19-  From R-1 to LC, Lot 4, Water Tower Subdivision
18    2023
2023- 10-17- From AG to RR, NW quarter of the SW quarter of Section 22, Township 17 North,
21    2023   Range 3, East of sixth P.M.
2023- 12-19- From R-1 to GC, Lots 1 and 2, 4 Walls LLC Minor Subdivision
22    2023
2024- 4-16-  From R-1 to LI, 66 feet East of the NW corner of Block 58, Clarkson’s Fourth
04    2024   Addition
2024- 5-21-  From R-1 to R-2, Lots 13-15 and West half of 16, Block 44, Original Town
05    2024
2024- 5-21-  From R-1 to LC, 132 East of NW corner of Block 58, Clarkson’s Fourth Addition
06    2024
2024- 5-21-  From R-1 to R-2, NE quarter or SW quarter of Section 11, Township 17 North,
07    2024   Range 3 East of the sixth P.M.
            
 
TABLE IV: TAXATION
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Implementing one-half of 1% city sales and use tax;
2007-03  4-3-2007    effective 10-1-2007; shall automatically terminate at the
                     end of seven years from the date the tax becomes
                     effective.
2017-02  4-4-2017    Continuing the implementation of a one- half of 1% city
                     sales and use tax.
                    
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE CONVEYANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2007-05  8-21-2007   Conveying real estate to NeighborWorks Northeast Nebraska.
2007-07  10-16-2007  Selling and conveying real estate to Schuyler Community
                     Schools.
2012-17  11-20-2012  Sale of right-of-way to Alegent Health on East 18th
                     Street.
2012-18  12-4-2012   Conveying real estate known as Lot 2, Block A, North Park
                     Addition to City of Schuyler.
                     Authorizing the sale and exchange of real estate owned by
                     the city and described as most of the access road along
2018-08  5-15-2018   the north and western boundaries of Block A and all of
                     Industrial Road in Block A, Schuyler Industrial Park to
                     Robert K. Murray, Trustee, and Sandra L. Murray, Trustee,
                     in exchange for 0.84 acres to the city.
                     Authorizing the sale of real estate owned by the city and
2018-15  10-2-2018   described as lots 1, 2, 3 and 4, Water Tower Subdivision,
                     third Addition to Mesner Development Co.
                     Authorizing the sale of real estate owned by the city and
2019-03  2-19-2019   described as Tract 1, Tract 2, Tract 3 and Tract 4
                     commencing at Courthouse Square to Matthew Kroeger.
2020-08  7-21-2020   Authorizing the sale of city-owned real estate at 1620 A
                     Street to Guillermo Gutierrez and Hilda Raya for $7,500.
2020-11  10-6-2020   Authorizing the sale of real estate within Block 5,
                     Clarkson & Dorsey's Subdivision.
2022-04  2-15-2022   Authorizing the sale of property described as Lots 11 and
                     14, Block 3, Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2022-07  6-21-2022   Authorizing sale of property described as Lots 1, 2, 3, 4,
                     5, and 6, Water Tower Subdivision, Fourth Addition.
2022-11  8-16-2022   Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 9, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-03  2-7-2023    Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 10, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-05  4-18-2023   Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 12, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-06  5-16-2023   Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 8, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-07  5-16-2023   Authorizing sale of property described as Lots 3 and 7,
                     Block 3, Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-08  6-20-2023   Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 1, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-09  6-6-2023    Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 2, Block 2,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-10  6-6-2023    Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 2, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-12  6-20-2023   Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 4, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-14  8-15-2023   Authorizing sale of property described as Lots 6 and 13,
                     Block 3, Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
2023-16  9-5-2023    Authorizing sale of property described as Lot 5, Block 3,
                     Water Tower Subdivision, Second Addition.
                     Authorizing sale of property described as SE corner of Lot
                     1, Block 1, thence west 120 feet; thence north 25 feet;
2024-02  1-16-2024   thence east 120 feet; thence south 25 feet to the point of
                     beginning of Lot 1, Block 1, Dorsey's Addition, being part
                     of a Subdivision of parts of Sections 10 and 11, in
                     Township 17, North, Range 3, East of the sixth P.M.
                     Authorizing sale of property described as Lots 1, 2, 3,
2024-03  1-16-2024   and 4, excepting therefrom the north 100 feet of each lot
                     thereof
2024-08  6-18-2024   Authorizing sale of property described as the south 88
                     feet of Lots 13 and 15, Block 80, Original Town.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1972 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Code Section
Neb. RS               Code Section
13-504                30.061
13-505                30.061,
                      30.063
                      30.062;
13-506                30.063;
                      30.086
13-507                30.062
13-508                30.063 ;
                      30.085
13-509                30.063;
                      30.083
13-510                30.073
13-511                30.086
                      30.062;
13-518–13-522       30.063;
                      30.086
13-519                30.038
13-1802               31.30
16-115                11.01
                      114.01;
16-205                114.03;
                      114.04
16-206                90.08;
                      90.09
16-207                92.22
16-210                92.01;
                      92.21
16-212                113.120
16-217                31.20
16-225                31.31
16-227                130.50,
                      130.52
16-228                130.07
16-230                94.005
                      31.28;
16-238                50.04;
                      32.024;
                      50.04
16-246                10.99
16-247                10.15
16-302.01             31.03;
                      31.04
16-305                30.100;
                      31.21
16-308                31.41
16-309                31.20
16-312–16-316       31.01
16-317                31.27
16-318                31.24;
                      31.26
16-318(3)             31.24
16-319                31.23
16-321                30.070;
                      31.32
16-321.01             30.070
16-322                31.22;
                      31.23
16-323                31.29;
                      31.30
16-324                31.36
16-325                32.022
16-326                30.100
16-402                31.02
16-404                10.15;
                      30.023
                      30.020–
16-405                30.022;
                      30.070
16-502                30.101
16-667 et seq.        50.01–
                      50.03
16-673                51.02
                      50.01;
16-681                52.08;
                      52.12
16-681 et seq.        51.02
16-696                32.017
16-701                30.060
16-704                30.067
16-706                30.069;
                      30.076
16-707                30.066
16-712–16-716       30.079
16-718                30.072
16-762                30.071
16-1015               30.131
17-118                31.30
17-522                92.29
17-531                52.03
17-534                52.03
17-536                52.17
                      52.04–
                      52.06;
17-537                52.14;
                      52.18;
                      52.19
17-540                30.077
17-542                52.07
17-557.01             92.24
17-602                30.037
17-605                31.27
17-606                31.24
17-606(2)             31.24
17-702                30.077
                      151.01–
18-132                151.03;
                      151.05
18-305–18-312       30.101
18-412.01             30.070
18-1701               31.27
                      10.99;
                      94.004;
18-1720               94.005;
                      94.999;
                      130.10;
                      130.51
18-1722               10.99;
                      94.999
18-1756               30.070
18-1757               32.42
18-1801–18-1805     30.081
18-1901–18-1909     32.019
18-1907               113.002;
                      113.004
18-1908               113.005;
                      113.007
18-1909               113.008
18-1910               113.002;
                      113.011
18-1911               113.001;
                      113.010
18-2101–18-2144     32.026
18-2101.01            32.016;
                      32.026
18-2715               32.016
19-613                31.04
19-907–19-910       32.018
19-908                32.016
19-910                32.018
19-912                152.17
19-912.01             32.018
19-925                32.016
19-929                32.016
                      31.24;
19-1101               31.25;
                      31.27
19-1102               31.27
19-1103               31.27
19-1301–19-1304     30.077
19-1305               52.03
                      51.08;
                      51.09;
19-1404               51.13;
                      51.14;
                      51.16
19-1825 et seq.       32.070
19-2701               50.02
19-2901–19-2909     30.065
20-113                93.01
20-301–20-322       93.08
20-301–20-344       93.01
20-304–20-317       93.02
20-318                93.03
20-319                93.04
20-320                93.05
20-321                93.06
20-322                93.07
23-122                31.27
25-505.01             30.044
Ch. 28, Art. 3        112.22
Ch. 28, Art. 4        112.22
Ch. 28, Art. 7        112.22
Ch. 28, Art. 8        112.22
Ch. 28, Art. 10       112.22
Ch. 28, Art. 11       112.22
Ch. 28, Art. 12       112.22
28-401                93.02
28-431                130.19
28-512                51.19;
                      130.08
28-514                130.08
28-729                130.01
28-806                130.07
28-1004               90.16
28-1005               90.16
28-1005.04            90.16
28-1008               90.27
28-1009               90.27
28-1012               90.27
28-1465               31.30
28-1466               31.30
28-1472               31.30
29-215                31.30
29-422–29-429       90.27
29-4001 - 29-4014     110.04
29-4003               130.41
29-4013               130.41
31-1001 - 31-1022     152.01
32-101                Ch. 32
32-110                30.037
32-115                30.037
32-404                30.035;
                      30.039
32-405                30.038,
                      30.044
32-556                30.035
32-557                30.040
32-559                30.038
32-562                30.044
32-567                30.044
32-568                31.06
32-570                30.044
32-574                30.044
32-607                30.041;
                      30.043
32.608                30.042;
                      30.043
32-615                30.043
32-616                30.043
32-617                30.043
32-618                30.043
32-621                30.043
32.622                30.041
32-625(2)             30.043
32-625–32-627       30.041
32-627                30.043
32-628                30.043
32-628–32-631       30.084
32-629                30.043;
                      30.044
32-630                30.043;
                      30.044
32-710                30.043
32-802                30.036;
                      30.084
32-952–32-959       30.038
32-1202               30.038
32-1301               30.044
32-1302               30.044
32-1303               30.044
32-1304               30.044
32-1305               30.044
32-1306               30.044
32-1307               30.044
32-1308               30.044
32-1309               30.044
32-1525               30.045
32-4,152              31.05
33-141                31.24
35-106                114.01
37-1254.01            31.30
37-1254.02            31.30
39-311                70.01
39-747                72.15
39-836                30.081
39-6,104.01           70.16
48-1503               30.070
49-801(16)            10.05
51-201–51-219       32.015
51-201                30.084
51-205                32.015
51-207                32.015
51-210                32.015
51-211                32.015
51-215                30.077
51-216                30.077
51-501                30.084
52-601.01-52-605      130.19
53-101                Ch. 112
53-103.01–53-103.42 112.01
53-116.01             112.24
53-118                112.47
53-123.12             112.23
53-124                112.23;
                      114.06
53-124.01             112.23
53-124.12             112.26
53.124.15             112.45
53-125                112.22
53-129                112.23
53-131                112.23
53-133                112.23;
                      112.45
53-134                112.23
53-134.03             112.23;
                      112.47
53-134.04             112.30
53-135                112.25
53-135.01             112.23;
                      112.25
53-148                112.27
53-160                114.06
53-167.02             112.53
53-167.03             112.53
53-168.06             112.20
53-175                112.21
53-177                112.45
53-177.01             112.45
53-178                112.46
53-179                112.48
53-180                112.02
53-183                112.49
53-184                112.51
53-186                112.02
53-186(2)             112.02
53-186.01             112.02
53-194.03             112.21
53-1,101              112.28
53-1,102              112.29
53-1,115              112.30
53-1,121              112.04
54-603                90.02
54-603(3)             90.02
54-606                90.01
54-617                90.01,
                      90.41
60-103                76.01
60-135.01             76.01
60-169                130.19
Chapter 60, Article 3 130.31
60-302                71.02
60-305                76.01
60-324                71.03
60-325                71.03
60-358.01             76.01
60-376                130.19
60-435                70.17
60-436                70.20
60-608                72.16
60-624                76.01
                      70.10;
                      72.18;
                      72.19;
60-680                73.14;
                      73.15;
                      73.17;
                      73.18
60-683                70.18;
                      70.20
60-696                70.16
60-1901               130.19
60-1902               130.19
60-1903               130.19
60-1903.01            130.19
60-1904               130.19
60-1905               130.19
60-1906               130.19
60-1907               130.19
60-1908               130.19
60-1909               130.19
60-1911               130.19
60-2410               130.19
60-4,163              31.30
60-4,164              31.30
60-4,182              70.23
60-6,106.01           71.01
60-6,114              73.19
60-6,119              72.19
60-6,119–60-6,121   72.19
60-6,121              72.19
60-6,127              70.03
60-6,129              70.02
60-6,133              70.04
60-6,139              70.05
60-6,140              70.06;
                      70.08
60-6,166              72.13
60-6,169              72.16
60-6,183              70.07
60-6,190              70.12–
                      70.14
60-6, 196             31.30
60-6,196–60-6,203   70.15
60-6, 197             31.30
60-6,211.01           31.30
60-6,211.02           31.30
60-6,212              70.24
60-6,213              70.23
60-6,214–60-6,218   70.22
60-6,215              70.23
60-6,219              71.04;
                      74.04
60-6,220              71.04
60-6,222              70.20
60-6,224              71.04
60-6,235              71.04
60-6,243              71.08
60-6,244              71.04
60-6,254              71.04
60-6,267(1)           70.28
60-6,267(2)           70.28
60-6,267(3)           70.28
60-6,286              71.06
60-6,307              74.05
60-6,308              70.05
60-6,315              74.02
60-6,316              74.05
60-6,317              74.02
60-6,318              74.02
60-6,320–60-6,346   75.01
60-6,355              76.01
60-6,356              76.01
60-6,680              70.08
70-1065               51.10
                      50.23;
70-1602               51.11;
                      52.11
                      50.23;
70-1605               51.11;
                      52.11
                      50.23;
70-1606               51.11;
                      52.11
                      50.23;
70-1607               51.11;
                      52.11
                      50.23;
70-1608–70-1614     51.11;
                      52.11
                      50.23;
70-1615               51.11;
                      52.11
71-1572–71-15,168   32.023
71-1596               32.023
71-1637               30.084
71-15,104             32.023
71-4401               90.01
71-4603               130.19
73-101 et seq.        30.070
74-1336               113.120
76-701–76-724       30.115
76-704–76-724       32.015
77-1601               30.083
77-1606               30.083;
                      30.084
77-1632               30.083
77-1633               30.083;
                      30.085
77-2201               31.24
77-2201–77-2215     31.24
77-2202               31.24
77-2209               31.24
77-2210               31.24
77-2212               31.24
77-2337               30.077
77-2339               30.077
77-2341               30.080
77-2362–77-2364     30.079
77-2705               110.04
77-3442               30.084
77-3442–77-3444     30.084
77-3443               30.084
77-3444               30.038;
                      30.084
80-202                30.084
81-145–81-162       30.070
81.829.51             30.086
81-829.65             31.30
81-1438–81-1446     31.20
81-2101 e seq.        113.051
84-712                31.27
84-712–84-712.09    31.24;
                      31.27
84-712(2)             31.27
84-1201–84-1220     31.27
84-1408               30.005
84-1409               30.085
84-1411               30.005
                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1972 CODE
1972 Code 2008 Code
1972 Code 2008 Code
1-101     31.01
1-102     31.02
1-103     31.03
1-104     31.04
1-105     31.05
1-105.01  31.06
1-201     31.20
1-202     31.21
1-202.01  31.22
1-203     31.23
1-204     31.24
1-205     31.25
1-206     31.26
1-207     31.27
1-208     31.28
1-209     31.29
1-210     31.30
1-210.01  31.31
1-212     31.32
1-213     31.33
1-214     31.34
1-215     31.35
1-216     31.36
1-217     31.37
1-218     31.38
1-219     31.39
1-220     31.40
1-221     31.41
1-222     31.42
1-601     11.01
1-701     30.001
1-702     30.002
1-703     30.003
1-704     30.004
1-801     30.015
1-802     30.016
1-803     30.017
1-804     30.018
1-805     30.019
1-806     30.020
1-807     30.021
1-808     30.022
1-809     30.023
1-920     30.046
1-1001    30.060
1-1002    30.061
1-1003    30.062
1-1004    30.063
1-1005    30.064
1-1006    30.065
1-1007    30.066
1-1008    30.067
1-1009    30.068
1-1010    30.069
1-1011    30.070
1-1012    30.071
1-1013    30.072
1-1014    30.073
1-1015    30.074
1-1016    30.075
1-1017    30.076
1-1018    30.077
1-1019    30.078
1-1020    30.079
1-1021    30.080
1-1022    30.081
1-1023    30.082
1-1024    30.083
1-1025    30.084
1-1026    30.086
1-1101    30.100
1-1102    30.101
1-1103    30.102
1-1201    30.115
1-1301    30.130
1-1401    30.999;
          31.99
2-101     32.001
2-201     32.015
2-202     32.016
2-203     32.017
2-205     32.018
2-206     32.019
2-207     32.020
2-208     32.021
2-209     32.022
2-210     32.023
2-212     32.024
2-213     32.025
2-301     32.040
2-302     32.041
2-303     32.042
2-304     32.043
2-305     32.044
2-306     32.045
2-307     32.046
2-308     32.047
2-309     32.048
2-310     32.049
2-311     32.050
2-312     32.051
2-313     32.052
2-314     32.053
2-315     32.054
2-316     32.055
2-317     32.056
2-318     32.057
2-319     32.058
2-320     32.059
2-401     32.070
2-402     32.071
2-403     32.072
2-404     32.073
2-405     32.074
2-406     32.075
2-407     32.076
2-501     32.999
3-401     52.01
3-402     52.02
3-403     52.03
3-404     52.04
3-405     52.05
3-406     52.06
3-407     52.07
3-408     52.08
3-409     52.09
3-410     52.10
3-411     52.12
3-412     52.13
3-413     52.14
3-414     52.15
3-415     52.16
3-416     52.17
3-417     52.18
3-418     52.19
3-419     52.20
3-420     52.21
3-421     52.22
3-422     52.23
3-423     52.24
3-424     52.25
3-425     52.26
3-426     52.27
3-427     52.28
3-428     52.29
3-429     52.30
3-430     52.31
3-431     52.32
3-432     52.33
3-501     50.01
3-502     50.02
3-503     50.03
3-504     50.04
3-505     50.05
3-506     50.06
3-507     50.07
3-508     50.08
3-509     50.09
3-510     50.10
3-511     50.11
3-512     50.12
3-513     50.13
3-514     50.14
3-515     50.15
3-516     50.16
3-517     50.17
3-518     50.18
3-519     50.19
3-520     50.20
3-521     50.21
3-524     50.24
3-526     50.26
3-527     50.27
3-528     50.28
3-529     50.29
3-530     50.30
3-531     50.31
3-532     50.32
3-533     50.33
3-534     50.34
3-535     50.35
3-536     50.36
3-537     50.37
3-538     50.38
3-539     50.39
3-540     50.40
3-541     50.41
3-542     50.42
3-543     50.99
3-544     50.43
3-545     50.44
3-601     51.01
3-602     51.02
3-603     51.03
3-604     51.04
3-606     51.06
3-607     51.07
3-608     51.08
3-609     51.09
3-610     51.10
3-611     51.12
3-612     51.13
3-613     51.14
3-614     51.15
3-615     51.16
3-616     51.17
3-617     51.18
3-618     51.19
3-619     51.20
3-620     51.21
3-901     150.01
3-902     150.02
3-903     150.03
3-904     150.04
3-905     150.05
3-906     150.06
3-907     150.07
3-908     150.08
3-909     150.09
          50.99;
3-1101    51.99;
          52.99;
          150.99
4-401     94.999
4-402     94.999
5-201     72.01
5-203     72.02
5-204     72.03
5-205     72.04
5-206     72.05
5-207     72.06
5-208     72.07
5-209     72.08
5-210     72.09
5-211     72.10
5-212     72.11
5-213     72.12
5-214     72.13
5-215     72.14
5-216     72.15
5-217     72.16
5-218     72.17
5-219     72.18
5-220     72.19
5-221     72.20
5-222     72.21
5-223     72.22
5-224     72.23
5-225     72.24
5-226     72.25
5-227     72.26
5-228     72.27
5-301     71.01
5-302     71.02
5-303     71.03
5-304     71.04
5-305     71.05
5-306     71.06
5-307     71.07
5-308     71.08
5-309     71.09
5-310     71.10
5-311     71.11
5-312     71.12
5-401     73.01
5-402     73.02
5-403     73.03
5-404     73.04
5-405     73.05
5-406     73.06
5-407     73.07
5-408     73.08
5-409     73.09
5-410     73.10
5-411     73.11
5-412     73.12
5-413     73.13
5-414     73.14
5-415     73.15
5-416     73.16
5-417     73.17
5-418     73.18
5-419     73.19
5-420     73.20
5-421     73.21
5-422     73.22
5-501     74.01
5-502     74.02
5-503     74.03
5-504     74.04
5-505     74.05
5-506     74.06
5-602     70.01
5-603     70.02
5-604     70.03
5-605     70.04
5-606     70.05
5-607     70.06
5-608     70.07
5-609     70.08
5-610     70.09
5-611     70.10
5-612     70.11
5-613     70.12
5-614     70.13
5-615     70.14
5-616     70.15
5-617     70.16
5-618     70.17
5-619     70.18
5-620     70.19
5-621     70.20
5-622     70.21
5-623     70.22
5-624     70.23
5-625     70.24
5-626     70.25
5-628     70.26
5-629     70.27
5-630     70.28
5-701     75.01
5-801     70.99
5-802     70.99
6-101     90.01
6-102     90.02;
          90.99
6-105     90.05
6-106     90.06;
          90.99
6-107     90.07
6-108     90.08;
          90.99
6-109     90.09
6-110     90.10
6-111     90.11
6-112     90.12
6-113     90.13
6-114     90.14
6-115     90.15
6-116     90.16
6-117     90.17
6-118     90.18
6-119     90.19
6-120     90.20
6-121     90.21
6-122     90.23
6-123     90.24
6-124     90.25
6-125     90.26
6-201     90.40
6-301     130.01
6-302     130.02
6-303     130.03
6-306     130.04
6-307     130.05
6-308     130.06
6-309     130.07
6-310     130.08
6-317     130.09
6-318     130.10
6-321     130.11
6-322     130.12
6-323     130.13
6-324     130.50
6-325     130.51
6-326     130.16
6-327     130.17
6-328     130.18
6-330     130.19
6-331     130.20
6-333     130.22
6-334     130.23
6-335     130.24
6-336     130.25
6-337     130.26
6-338     130.27
6-339     130.28
6-342     130.30
6-343     130.31
6-344     130.32
6-345     130.33
6-401     91.01
6-402     91.02
6-403     91.03
6-404     91.04
          90.99;
6-701     91.99;
          130.99
6-702     130.99
6-703     130.99
8-101     92.01
8-102     92.02
8-103     92.03
8-104     92.04
8-105     92.05
8-106     92.06
8-201     92.20
8-202     92.21
8-203     92.22
8-204     92.23
8-205     92.24
8-206     92.25
8-207     92.26
8-208     92.27
8-209     92.28
8-210     92.29
8-212     92.30
8-301     92.40
8-302     92.41
8-303     92.42
8-304     92.43
8-501     92.99
9-101     151.01
9-201     151.02
9-301     151.03
9-401     151.04
9-501     151.05
9-601     151.99
10-201    111.01
10-202    111.02
10-203    111.03
10-204    111.04
10-205    111.05
10-401    113.001
10-402    113.002
10-403    113.003
10-404    113.004
10-405    113.005
10-406    113.006
10-407    113.007
10-408    113.008
10-409    113.009
10-410    113.010
10-411    113.011
10-412    113.025
10-413    113.026
10-414    113.027
10-415    113.028
10-416    113.029
10-417    113.030
10-418    113.031
10-419    113.032
10-420    113.033
10-421    113.034
10-422    113.035
10-423    113.050
10-424    113.051
10-425    113.052
10-426    113.053
10-427    113.054
10-428    113.055
10-429    113.056
10-430    113.057
10-431    113.058
10-432    113.059
10-433    113.060
10-434    113.075
10-435    113.090
10-436    113.091
10-437    113.092
10-437.01 113.093
10-439    130.52
10-440    113.120
10-441    113.121
10-442    113.122
10-443    113.123
10-444    113.124
10-445    113.125
10-446    113.140
10-446.01 113.141
10-446.02 113.142
10-446.03 113.143
10-446.04 113.144
10-446.05 113.145
10-446.06 113.146
10-446.07 113.147
10-446.08 113.148
10-501    TSO I
10-502    TSO I
10-503    TSO II
10-601    114.01
10-602    114.02
10-603    114.03
10-604    114.04
10-605    114.05
10-606    114.06
10-701    115.01
10-702    115.02
10-703    115.03
10-704    115.04
10-705    115.05
10-706    115.06
10-707    115.07
10-708    115.08
10-709    115.09
10-710    115.10
10-711    115.11
10-712    115.12
10-713    115.13
10-714    115.14
10-715    115.15
10-716    115.16
10-717    115.17
10-718    115.18
10-719    115.19
10-720    115.20
10-721    115.21
10-722    115.22
10-723    115.23
10-724    115.24
10-725    115.25
10-726    115.26
10-727    115.27
10-728    115.28
10-729    115.29
10-730    115.30
10-731    115.31
10-732    115.32
10-733    115.33
10-734    115.34
10-735    115.35
10-736    115.36
10-737    115.37
10-738    115.38
10-739    115.39
10-740    115.40
10-741    115.41
10-742    115.42
10-743    115.43
10-744    115.44
10-745    115.45
10-801    93.01
10-802    93.02
10-803    93.03
10-804    93.04
10-805    93.05
10-806    93.06
10-807    93.07
10-808    93.08
          93.99;
          111.99;
10-901    113.999;
          114.99;
          115.99
11-101    155.01
11-201    153.01;
          154.01
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed 2008 Code
Ord. No. Date Passed 2008 Code
-        - -         TSO I 
-        - -         TSO II
482      8-8-1972    31.22
483      8-8-1972    130.27
503      5-7-1974    74.06
509      8-6-1974    70.22–
                     70.25
510      8-6-1974    73.12
515      9-17-1974   50.09
516      9-17-1974   52.10
521      2-18-1975   130.28
522      2-18-1975   75.01
523      5-16-1976   95.14
527      7-15-1975   130.08
531      9-16-1975   70.26
535      2-3-1976    150.04
541      5-4-1976    30.004;
                     31.04
542      5-18-1976   31.05
544      6-15-1976   31.01
546      6-20-1976   112.48
547      7-20-1976   113.125
551      9-21-1976   30.020
556      11-2-1976   95.14
558      11-16-1976  30.004
565      5-3-1977    92.29
566      6-7-1977    150.04
567      6-7-1977    50.02;
                     52.05
570      6-7-1977    114.01
574      7-5-1977    130.52
584      10-4-1977   92.40
588      11-9-1977   31.20
589      11-15-1977  32.016
590      11-15-1977  32.018
591      11-15-1977  32.015
592      12-6-1977   32.017
598      4-18-1978   150.09
601      5-16-1978   70.12
607      10-3-1978   32.018
610      12-19-1978  30.003
627      11-6-1979   111.03
634      2-5-1980    30.070
635      2-5-1980    70.24
638      4-15-1980   115.01–
                     115.45
639      5-6-1980    70.27
                     50.18–
                     50.21;
640      5-20-1980   50.24;
                     50.26;
                     50.43;
                     50.99
645      8-19-1980   32.017
652      2-3-1981    32.015
653      3-3-1981    113.125
654      5-19-1981   32.022
660      7-21-1981   151.01
662      7-21-1981   151.05
663      7-21-1981   151.03
668      8-4-1981    151.02
646      11-3-1981   153.01;
                     154.01
693      7-6-1982    113.140
                     90.99;
                     91.01–
687      7-20-1982   91.04;
                     91.99;
                     130.99
692      7-20-1982   112.48
710      8-16-1983   115.34
716A     10-18-1983  113.140–
                     113.148
731      1-3-1985    31.41
733      1-3-1985    150.04
741      6-18-1985   73.22
745      8-6-1985    32.025
734      12-5-1985   30.019
757      3-3-1987    70.12
768      2-16-1988   32.040–
                     32.059
771      9-20-1988   32.016
801      7-2-1991    151.01
802      7-2-1991    151.02
803      7-2-1991    151.03
803A     8-20-1991   95.01
804      7-2-1991    151.05
805      9-3-1991    112.48
810      1-21-1992   150.04
819      9-1-1992    50.44
820      9-1-1992    50.04
824      10-6-1992   32.025
829      5-18-1993   151.03
836      9-21-1993   92.01
838      2-23-1994   113.092;
                     113.093
845      1-3-1995    93.01–
                     93.08
846      2-7-1995    130.20
850      7-18-1995   72.24
857      12-19-1995  30.016
859      2-6-1996    31.31
858      2-20-1996   32.022
865      5-7-1996    150.04
869      9-5-1996    90.21
875A     2-18-1997   90.40
878      5-6-1997    52.30–
                     52.33
882      7-15-1997   113.140 -
                     113.150
542      5-18-1997   31.06
                     30.999;
                     31.99;
                     32.999;
                     50.99;
                     51.99;
                     52.99;
                     70.15;
                     70.99;
                     90.99;
                     91.99;
905      11-2-1999   92.99;
                     93.99;
                     94.999;
                     95.99;
                     111.99;
                     113.999;
                     114.99;
                     115.99;
                     130.99;
                     150.99;
                     152.99
919      3-7-2000    73.08
                     90.01;
                     90.02;
920      3-7-2000    90.05–
                     90.17;
                     90.99
921      4-18-2000   90.40
925      6-20-2000   30.083
926      6-20-2000   30.084;
                     30.086
927      6-20-2000   30.073
929      10-3-2000   150.04
                     90.18–
931      12-5-2000   90.21;
                     90.23–
                     90.26
932      1-2-2001    72.01
933      1-2-2001    72.20
934      1-2-2001    70.99
935      1-16-2001   72.23
936      1-16-2001   72.25
937      1-16-2001   72.26
938      2-6-2001    71.05
939      2-6-2001    70.09
940      4-3-2001    30.061
941      4-3-2001    70.28
953      11-20-2001  130.19
954      11-20-2001  73.16
956      3-19-2002   95.05
958      4-2-2002    31.42
959      4-2-2002    95.02
962      7-16-2002   32.070–
                     32.076
965      9-17-2002   30.001
966      9-17-2002   32.022
970      11-19-2002  130.36
974      12-17-2002  130.31
981      8-18-2003   130.30
980      8-19-2003   130.32
983      10-21-2003  30.130;
                     30.131
                     151.01–
984      1-6-2004    151.05;
                     151.99
986      4-13-2004   52.10
987      4-13-2004   51.10
993      7-20-2004   72.27
996      10-19-2004  130.33
998      2-1-2005    TSO III
999      2-1-2005    TSO III
2005-3   2-15-2005   52.34
                     130.04–
2005-4   5-3-2005    130.06;
                     130.34
2005-10  5-18-2005   TSO III
2005-11  5-18-2005   TSO III
2005-12  8-2-2005    150.04
2005-14  12-20-2005  TSO III
2006-3   3-7-2006    32.016
2006-04  7-18-2006   TSO III
2006-1   3-21-2006   153.01;
                     154.01
2006-2   3-21-2006   130.35
2007-01  3-6-2007    73.22
2007-02  4-3-2007    153.01;
                     154.01
2007-03  4-3-2007    TSO IV
2007-04  7-17-2007   153.01;
                     154.01
2007-05  8-21-2007   TSO V
2007-07  10-16-2007  TSO V
2007-9   11-6-2007   32.025
                     94.050–
2008-04  7-15-2008   94.058;
                     94.999
2008-08  8-5-2008    130.34;
                     130.99
2009-3   2-17-2009   TSO III
2009-5   4-7-2009    TSO III
2009-6   6-16-2009   TSO III
2010-02  3-16-2010   75.01; Repeal 75.02
2010-05  7-6-2010    TSO III
2010-06  7-20-2010   112.48
2010-08  8-7-2010    TSO III
2010-09  8-17-2010   130.40–
                     130.42
2010-11  9-21-2010   TSO III
2010-14  12-21-2010  130.52
2011-01  1-18-2011   TSO III
2011-02  5-3-2011    TSO III
2011-04  7-29-2011   114.01
2011-05  9-20-2011   TSO III
2011-07  10-18-2011  TSO III
2011-08  10-18-2011  TSO III
                     30.043;
                     30.070;
                     31.30;
                     90.02;
                     90.16;
2011-11  3-6-2012    90.27;
                     112.01;
                     112.22;
                     112.23;
                     112.26;
                     112.45;
                     112.50; Repeal 92.03; 92.04
                     52.30–
2012-03  4-3-2012    52.33;
                     52.37
2012-04  4-3-2012    Repeal 91.15–91.19
                     95.01–
2012-06  6-19-2012   95.14;
                     95.99
2012-07  7-3-2012    150.04;
                     150.05
2012-08  7-7-2012    TSO III
2012-14  11-6-2012   TSO III
                     90.01–
                     90.27;
2012-16  2-19-2013   90.40–
                     90.55;
                     90.99
2012-17  11-20-2012  TSO V
2012-18  12-4-2012   TSO V
2013-01  2-19-2013   32.026
2013-03  2-19-2013   112.48
2013-04  2-19-2013   TSO III
2013-05  3-19-2013   76.01
                     94.001–
                     94.012;
2013-06  5-21-2013   94.050–
                     94.058;
                     94.999
2013-07  6-25-2013   TSO III
2013-09  8-6-2013    TSO III
2013-10  9-6-2013    TSO III
2014-05  4-1-2014    Repeal 32.090–32.099
2014-07  5-20-2014   32.015
2015-09  10-7-2014   32.022
2014-10  9-16-2014   112.48
                     94.005;
2014-16  11-18-2014  94.007;
                     94.008
2014-17  11-18-2014  94.003;
                     94.005
2015-01  2-3-2015    151.01–
                     151.05
2015-02  3-17-2015   112.49
2015-03  2-17-2015   30.043
2015-04  2-17-2015   30.042
2015-05  3-17-2015   130.19
2015-08  4-21-2015   52.65
2015-09  5-5-2015    76.01
2015-10  7-7-2015    114.01
2015-13  8-18-2015   114.01
                     152.01 -
2016-01  4-5-2016    152.22;
                     152.99
2016-02  2-16-2016   30.086
2016-03  2-16-2016   30.044
                     30.043;
2016-10  12-20-2016  112.20;
                     112.22;
                     112.23; Repeal 112.52
2017-01  2-21-2017   TSO III
2017-02  4-4-2017    TSO IV
2017-03  5-16-2017   TSO III
2017-05  9-19-2017   TSO III
2017-06  9-19-2017   154.01
2017-08  12-19-2017  TSO III
2018-01  1-2-2018    32.016
2018-02  1-2-2018    30.062;
                     30.063
2018-03  1-16-2018   155.01
2018-04  1-16-2018   154.01
2018-05  1-16-2018   153.01
2018-06  5-15-2018   154.01
2018-08  5-15-2018   TSO V
2018-09  7-3-2018    TSO III
2018-10  7-3-2018    113.142
2018-11  8-7-2018    TSO III
                     110.01–
2018-12  8-7-2018    110.17;
                     110.99; Repeal 110.01–110.04; 110.99
2018-14  10-2-2018   154.01
2018-15  10-2-2018   TSO V
2018-17  11-6-2018   154.01
2018-18  11-6-2018   154.01
2018-20  12-18-2018  TSO III
2019-01  2-5-2019    130.19
2019-02  2-19-2019   151.01
2019-03  2-19-2019   TSO V
2019-04  5-7-2019    150.06
2019-05  5-21-2019   TSO III
2019-06  5-21-2019   TSO III
2019-07  6-18-2019   TSO III
2019-09  9-17-2019   TSO III
2019-10  9-17-2019   TSO III
                     30.043;
2019-12  12-3-2019   30.044;
                     30.077;
                     30.083; Repeal 130.21
2020-01  1-7-2020    154.01
2020-04  2-18-2020   TSO III
2020-05  2-18-2020   TSO III
2020-06  3-3-2020    152.06;
                     152.15
2020-07  5-19-2020   TSO III
2020-08  7-21-2020   TSO V
2020-10  10-6-2020   154.01
2020-11  10-6-2020   TSO V
2020-12  10-20-2020  TSO III
2020-15  1-5-2020    32.024
                     30.005;
                     30.044;
                     30.062;
                     31.24;
2021-01  1-5-2020    31.27;
                     50.23;
                     51.11;
                     52.11;
                     112.23
2021-03  8-3-2021    TSO III
2021-04  8-3-2021    154.01
2021-05  8-3-2021    151.06;
                     151.07
2021-06  8-3-2021    151.08
2021-09  11-2-2021   113.003;
                     113.053
2021-10  12-21-2021  30.046
2022-01  1-18-2022   TSO III
                     30.016;
                     30.020;
                     30.041;
                     30.042;
2022-03  1-18-2022   30.063;
                     30.083;
                     30.085;
                     30.086;
                     130.19
2022-04  2-15-2022   TSO V
2022-07  6-21-2022   TSO V
2022-08  7-19-2022   154.01
2022-09  7-19-2022   154.01
2022-11  8-16-2022   TSO V
2022-14  12-20-2022  TSO III
2022-15  12-20-2022  TSO III
                     30.038;
                     30.044;
2023-01  2-7-2023    30.061 -
                     30.063;
                     30.084,
                     30.085
2023-02  2-7-2023    130.21
2023-03  2-7-2023    TSO V
2023-04  3-21-2023   TSO III
2023-05  4-18-2023   TSO V
2023-06  5-16-2023   TSO V
2023-07  5-16-2023   TSO V
2023-08  6-20-2023   TSO V
2023-09  6-6-2023    TSO V
2023-10  6-6-2023    TSO V
2023-12  6-20-2023   TSO V
2023-13  7-18-2023   TSO III
2023-14  8-15-2023   TSO V
2023-15  9-5-2023    130.50 -
                     130.53; Repeal 113.105; 130.14; 130.15
2023-16  9-5-2023    TSO V
2023-18  9-19-2023   TSO III
2023-21  10-17-2023  TSO III
2023-22  12-19-2023  TSO III
2024-01  1-16-2024   30.016;
                     30.085
2024-02  1-16-2024   TSO V
2024-03  1-16-2024   TSO V
2024-04  4-16-2024   TSO III
2024-05  5-21-2024   TSO III
2024-06  5-21-2024   TSO III
2024-07  5-21-2024   TSO III
2024-08  6-18-2024   TSO V
2024-09  7-16-2024   TSO I
2024-10  7-16-2024   114.01;
                     114.07
                    
 
